"i think these are very important considerations.it seems to be necessary to consider if this should become a project supported, also financially if necessary, by and made for those who want it, not only from the current eve base, as other interested people could be those who maybe left when incarna was cancelled as well as some of the potential future subscribers. that way it shouldn't be problematic for ccp to go ahead with it.there should in this respect be very regulated links between eve and this. using isk, aurum and plex should maybe be the only link. items bought in the wis setting should only have real relevance in this setting, though they could be sold in the market in eve and then be used by another person who have or plans to get access in this setting, or if it is apparel, be used in the character customization that exists already in eve.financially, if this was to be up front player financed i would prefer to support ccp directly instead of through another platform like kickstarter, then the money could be used more efficiently, and also not on lawyers. personally i want to give ccp all the creative freedom they want because i really like how they do things, so personally i wouldn't need for my opinion to be heard even if i contributed. personally i wouldn't mind if this were to be a paid expansion of the equivalent of between what it costs to get between 1-2 plex from the plex store. very likely, i would buy items from the wis in game store as well.this would be a new project with the potential for a lot of new features, which of course would be related to incarna, but i don't think it is reasonable to assume that the devs don't want to continue this project. it is not possible to know that.i don't really have a reply to the lack of developers question. maybe when legion is ready, some of the developers there could work on this project. if there is enough support, also financially, they could maybe hire more people."
"the fundamental problem of fozziesov is as follows:it's not fun. it's not fun to attack a 1x system. it's not fun to attack a 6x system. it's not fun to defend any system.this is a game. it should be fun. instead i spend my time doing sov related stuff playing other games. do you really want a game where the primary nullsec experience is alt-tabbing and playing another game?"
"that will not happen if you stop attacking empty space.even a 6x system is now quicker to take than in domi sov... its just your trying to use domi sov tactics and ships to do it."
"i was looking forward to fozzie sov, but last 2 weeks been most boring in 7 years playing eve."
"except we're not. orbiting nodes on alts is not fun. orbiting them on mains is less fun. it's only quicker when you consider the additional timer. actual time commitments are immensely longer than in dominion sov."
"isn't that what it already was?<U+FFFD>some capsuleers claim that ecm is 'dishonorable' and 'unfair'. jam those ones first, and kill them last.<U+FFFD> - jirai 'fatal' laitanen, pithum nullifier training manual c. yc104"
"previously through judicious use of capital ships you could reduce the boredom to mere minutes. now the boredom is a predetermined amount of orbiting nodes playing world of warships."
"i would ask how many systems are you taking to live in? tri has 1400 people in 22 corps. so how much space do you need?if you are taking more than you need i would have to ask why?the whole sov system is designed to make it a bit easier to carve out your own home.. but much much harder to take and hold more than you need so why are you trying to take more than you could possibly need even if you were 2x the size?"
"it's not about the sovereignty, or holding the sov, it's about getting people to fight. as it is now, the most effective way to get your opponent to go away is not to fight them, it's to force them to afk on nodes with alts while the rest of the fleet says '**** this, i'm going back to [insert staging system here].'defense now is about stationary objects in space, which don't shoot back, which use boredom as their primary tool of dissuading the enemy from engaging."
"as an fc that's currently abusing all of these mechanics to our advantage, i fully agree with the need for all these changes and points that uaxdeath brings up. being able to set entire regions on fire and making defenders have to deal with thousands of nodes due to 20-50 trollceptors sent from several regions away, without any intention or commitment to taking the sov we're attacking, is horrible gameplay for everyone involved. it just happens to be 5-10 times more horrible for the defender than it is for the attacker.the system is currently extremely broken, and the current consensus between a lot of groups seems to be that the best way to deal with fozziesov in its current state is to not care about it at all."
"so your way of getting people to fight is to create so many timers (that you hate making) that there are for sure not going to bother fighting?"
"the only people complaining are the people that dont live in their space/arent competent enough to defend their space"
"if you beat that dead horse any harder, it's going to turn into a pulp."
"it should have been pulped before it ever made it live.we were forced to retaliate by trolling insmother after they trolled the spire."
"+1 for original post"
"realty....did they come over to your house put a gun to your head and say entosis 600 things all night?or did you at the time (before the 1st entosis cycle) think it would be super funny to troll entosis all there space in one go?"
"there are no nodes to deal with when you defend.if you are dealing with nodes, then you are doing it wrong. nodes only appear if you allow reinforcement.it takes 3 people per system (tcu, ihub, station) to defend against troll-ceptors during the vulnerability window."
"it seems to be promoting skirmishes but not battles. i would be concerned about the missing half of the equation if i was ccp."
"battles will happen when people stop trolling and make a serious push at actually capturing a new area of space.of course battles don't happen if all you are doing is trolling around the edges of someone's sov."
"1.0"
"cant help but smile when i read the list of alliance in the op.please enjoy this nice bbc article on what they have dubbed 'the majestic arctic unicorn'."
"signed on a personal level as a compromise.problemfozzie sov is contrived. you wave a wand that has a fixed cycle time. you can not augment your ship to improve damage and grind the structure down. you can not augment your ship to repair the structure faster.shoot the hairy potthead fan who loves waving wands around.solution- cut carrier and dreadnaught dps by 10%- heavily nerf titan and super carrier dps.- roll back to dominion sov and cut the hit points off the structures that you no longer need.additionally, find a way to hard limit how many supers and titans an alliance can have active in a system or region.causes for the stagnation- no space for small independant corporations and alliances to grow big enough with the super / titan fleets to contest for space.- the ships were the problem. not the structures. now you have ruined sov for sub capitals. our sov has gone from building castles out of stone to building it out of plastic. it feels cheap, nasty and childish, catering to giggly little griefers that have too much energy and no patience."
"tl;dr -owners of the largest renter empires in eve are in a tizzy because they hold massive swathes of space that nobody uses. in dominion nobody could contest the empire at all, now they're complaining that they might actually have to do something to hold onto their space."
"check reddit. it is not only xxdeath, it is many other people from all over null sec.interesting. phoebe saw much change and fragmentation. before and after.fozzie sov is seeing fewer and larger coalitions."
"things will be fine when people get used to the new sov equation. the essential problem is that people have delusions of old grandeur, when an entity that could field a decent sized fleet could hold a region or more. forget that. in this new regime, the maths are going to look more like this:call a cta in your prime time. how many do you get consistently? 50? 100? 200, 500?divide that number by 20. that's probably about how many systems you can hold. try to take more than that, and you're going to have a bad time. get yourself established in a realistic amount of space. bring in some indy types if you don't want to mine and stuffs. once you are well established, you can pew-pew with your neighbors. you'll have a good time. if you get big enough (use the number you can get in a cta, so you don't bs yourself) take some more space.you're going to have to adjust your expectations to the new reality. the new reality isn't going to adjust to your expectations that used to be realistic, but aren't anymore."
"... have fleet battles, will now have silly little gang / solo spats that could be better done in low sec if that is your style of playing the game."
"little early for this since most people don't even understand fozziesov yet."
"i agree with a few of the pain points made, but strongly disagree on others.spreading fights out between systems was part of the original design of the aegis sov system, to avoid creating a chokepoint where all battle activity must happen on one node, and to better use the resources of the server cluster housing new eden. when we look at large scale battles like b-r5rb, 6vdt-h, and hed-gp they are remembered for their scale, but those who actually participated remember the sub 10% tidi, lag, and 20-22 hour slogfests. large blocs are quick to cry out that these battles are what gives eve the best publicity, but we know that many of the pilots drawn in from these do not experience these type of epic battles, and leave due to incorrect expectations.i strongly disagree with this, and i'm slightly amused by the large nullsec blocs comparing \"sov trolling\" to player harassment requiring gm tickets. htfu.entosis is designed to influence the type of ships brought to contest nodes as little as possible. there may be some extreme cases that need to be dealt with, but there are viable counters you can bring to most of these situations. a 12km/s vagabond orbiting the beacon at 250km? park a t1 frigate with a t1 entosis module on the beacon and pause their progress. or hunt down their links ship and kill it instead. right now a 1m isk griffin can jam out that ship and force them to go through the warmup cycle again; or a maulus can damp down the vagabond to lose its lock at that range, and force it to come in closer. if adm indexes are raised for the systems owned, it will take 40 minutes to reinforce a structure - giving lots of time to form up and chase off the invader. the increased adm will also result in a lower vulnerability window, so there is less time the defense fleets will have to be vigilant. and that's the point of occupancy sov - if you are living in the space and raising the indexes, you'll be able to defend it before the structures go into reinforced.as for roaming gangs, i'm finding entosis a great way of encouraging fights. it is creating content and a more vibrant nullsec. rather than roaming through regions of empty space, where ratters and miners pos or dock up as you come through, we can provoke a reaction and get a good fight. if the residents would rather not form up, then they'll have a lot of timers to deal with in the next few days, and risk having someone come and 3rd party it. some good examples of this:"
"i would also agree with this. sov ownership shouldn't feel like work, and cleaning up uncontested nodes should be able to be done with a minimum amount of effort.one suggestion i would have is if no parties show up to attempt to capture any of the command nodes, the original owners can run through one entosis link cycle on the original structure to defend it. if any parties attempt to capture any of the command nodes, this progress pauses. otherwise, once completed the structure goes into a \"defended\" state, is invulnerable until the next day's vulnerability window, and all command nodes disappear without having to be individually captured. no complaints about this. optimizing the information received through the notification system, or via crest would both be very helpful. similar to how dominion and pos structure attack notifications would show you the corporation or alliance attacking, that is valuable intel which will help determine your response without having to send a scout to confirm for every notification.i completely agree with this, in fact i posted about this in the \"sov little things\" thread. i think we need a lot more micromanagement with the sov structures themselves: being able to drop sov and unanchor to reclaim tcu/ihub rather than exploding them. also we need a way to micromanage ihub upgrades, as we are only allowed one per system now, and currently you cannot remove or online/offline specific ihub upgrades.i would like to see the ability to turn off/on individual ihub upgrades as long as it is not being reinforced. having the ability to unplug and move unneeded upgrades would also be helpful - so we can recoup some cost if those upgrades aren't needed, or we want to strategically reposition them."
"\"it is not the strongest of the species that survives but the most adaptable to change\" - charles darwin.any change to any system within eve will come with those who win from the changes and those who will lose from the changes. i would like to point out that all the signatories to this post are the powers of old, those who adapted to the dominion sov system and built their empires using the tactics and strategies that worked for that system and those times. they are obviously the ones losing out on the new system, but does that make fozziesov a bad system?i would ike to offer a counter perspective as a new alliance taking sov in nullsec for the first time.we (the corvos) were determined that we would not become a part of a coalition when we made the move to sov null. many of our leadership had been involved in sov before but we wanted to own our space in our own right. ours to hold or lose on our own merits. we made some allies, but no supercoalitions with blues for 30 jumps. so far we have been able to hold off much larger groups with better ship comps and numerical advantage by adapting to fozziesov. small teams (2-3 pilots) have been able to effectivley stop the enemy gaining any control whatsoever. sure we havent won every fight but we have been able to maintain our sov without simply being forced to face the enemy head on. we can fight hit and run gurella style, deny the enemy pilots their f1 pressing sessions while giving our own pilots invaluable small gang experince as we destory entosis ships and their escorts.fozziesov has allowed us, as well as many other smaller independant groups to compete in the sov game. of course it is no wonder the empires of olde are unhappy, they lose out on this. their weaknesses of old are now gaping holes in their battle plans. their pilots and fcs will need to change if their alliances are to be able to survive. no longer are fights decided on one single massive engagement.individual pilot skill matters. a small team of commited and experienced pilots can hold off or at least delay a larger force.big f1 pressing fests are not what every player wants. i want to be able to, mid fight, take command of a small detachment of a larger fleet and hit enemy positions and eliminate enemy entosis ships and their escorts.if you cannot adapt to the new system you will die. and those who can adapt and survive will take your place at the top of the food chain. you will not be able to have massive afk empires that noone can ever threaten.welcome to fozziesov boys.this isnt to say its perfect. uaxdeath does make some good points, such as not having to clean up uncontested nodes. but with ccps new release cycle they will be able to monitor and change the system as it needs. but the system as a whole is great, if the powers of old are complaining its an indication that fozziesov is working.and to ccp: keep up the good work."
"there is a huge gap between high sec and null sec, while low sec is not bridging that."
"check reddit. it is not only xxdeath, it is many other people from all over null sec.alliances signed petitionalexander leros, leader hard alliance - who the **** are these guysfafer, leader tr0pa de elite., curator brothers of tangra - renting empire malpais and regionfrosch koenig, leader synergy of steel - irrelevantgarst tyrell, leader triumvirate. - renting empire eth-reach and spirei sam, leader solar fleet - renting empire outer passagelorianna lee, leader dream fleet - no idea who the **** these guys arenullparseexception, leader soviet-union - renting empire eso/feyth/impasstitanokiller, leader infinity space. - irrelevanttru drksniper, leader advent of fate - do these guys even have space?uaxdeath, leader legion of xxdeathxx - pretty sure he bought a couple of bugattis with the sweet renter isk rmtunionn, leader the afterlife. - lol pseudo russiansredwyne vyruk, manager of bot and manager of xwx shadow_of_xxdeathxx - do i really need to spell this out?meandeane651, head diplomat and alliance command for gentlemen'sclub gentlemen's.club - renting empire immensearots mijnwerker, leader the blood covenant - irrelevant#dunkedm8"
"one social circle."
"this was a touted feature and is easily seen by any alliance member in the alliance sov tab as indicated by the phrase \"overtime\" which means a structure has been partially entosis'd and the vulnerability is in \"overtime\" this was also acknowledged by fozzie on the 5th reply on the original sov thread and he said they are working on a method to elegantly transfer sov, there is no need to keep pinging on a core feature, that imo, they know they left out and know is needed"
"quality op.nice to get eastern european voices in on this."
"sorry i'm late, there was a huge line at the the popcorn stand."
"that's doing it right."
"none whatsoever. furthermore, garst tyrell has signed this rmt rental whine without any kind of mandate from the alliance, and he is acting here as a single player, and as such his personal opinions in no way represent the official stance of triumvirate alliance."
"it is working as intend.there are no sov wars ongoing in eve or just some small scale local fights for not much important systems or taking space undefended. almost 3 weeks spent in the new system, and its visilbe, that if you not live in your space, your defense multiplier will be close to 1 and you can easily lost the system. you shouldn't own regions without manpower and ppl living out there. thats the point.as someone already mentioned earlier, the new system prefer the preventing defense, so if you live there, your defens multiplier is high then troll ceptors will need 60 mins for reinforce anything in a 3 hour window and your primary interest to defend yous space preventively, so kill that damn ceptor.well if you not live there, you deserve to lose that space... the old style renter empires are over. goons already adapting instead of typing wall of text on forum."
"you wouldn't be able to do that if they live there. its works as intend. you can say its not sweet, but still work as planned from my view. just try to entosis some cfc systems where ppl live around, you will see the difference comparing with the south rus empty space."
"yes to reducing the number of nodes if they are left uncontested. no to regroup them next to a contested structure....yes, even have them automatically revert to the defender if left untouched for a while.yes, speed reduction is a must for entosis ships, and make sure entosis forces a value commitment to the action, and not be done with worthless hulls (like the ridiculousness of rookie cyno ships).absolutely not. local intel/activity and scouting must be a thing and not being spoon-fed information.makes sense.+1"
"...didn't you guys have like 350 nodes to contest just the other day?"
"well said and bravo to your alliance, good sirkeep on doing it right."
"... or they could have just prevented the reinforcement in the first place and have 0 nodes to deal with. and if they couldn't be bothered to do that, then why would they bother to deal with the nodes!/facepalm"
"literally a rogues gallery of rmt."
"+1 thoughtful and true post!!!"
"occupancy bonuses are something i've always been advocating for, just beacuse that's a facet of the current system doesn't mean the system as a whole isn't utterly flawed and designed for one side of any sov conflict to bore the other one to tears without any kind of meaningful fleet engagements ever happening, which is honestly the biggest problem with fozziesov's design. there's also quite a difference between having decent defensive bonuses tied to occupancy and using your space, and any systems you don't mine or rat in for a few weeks to be able to be burned down by a handful of people in trollceptors at almost any given time."
"can you please rationalise why proper discussion of eve is done better on a 3rd party site rather than the official general discussion forum?you can't."
"oh look, another nullsec group who enjoys telling everyone to htfu when change happens to highsec and lowsec.and now a balanced -balanced- nullsec change occurs and?out come the giant alligator tears and cries of 'this sucks'. this is aids. this is ruining game play.no, it's made it so groups like yours can't own hundreds of nullsec systems that sit empty and unused. ccp wants you to defend your land. can't? figure out how. still can't? your problem.htfu. only keep what you can defend.adapt or leave null. simple as that."
"i love the fact rental alliances have signed this."
"can you please justify gimping \"legit\" combat fits with entosis link even when it is only specific denying fits that is the problem?"
"wow claim discrimination against null sec. that joke right?what needs to change here is way of thinking. they need to stop claiming sov on those systems that they dont use. this will drastically reduce the entosing. example the big populated systems in cfc have had no attempt to entosis(besides some obvious attempt to get you to fight). you wonder why? cos they are heavelly populated. if you look at the systems that are been attacked, they are systems that have either no people or very few people in it. so example cfc needs to stop claiming those systems they dont use and therefore cant defend cos of the absurd amount of timers. this will cause much much less entosis timers. mittani tried to counter this not by releasing systems but instead they tried to fill them up with renters. it has not worked. the new sov system was created to give greater chance for smaller entities to gain space and force the large ones to realease those systems they dont really use.stop blaiming fozzy sov or ships or other mechanics for your inability to hold a system which you obviously cant defend cos its stretches you alliance activities(entosis defence) way too much. pull back and release those system for other entities the same way that the new sov was meant to be utilised. dont and suffer the consequences!prior this, i want to ask how many big fight happened in the last year? not much cos most of these entitties did not really fight each other. one coult speculate cos they got some kind of agreement and the blue donut was born. the big fight will happen no matter what. i seriosly think it will cause a lot more animosity cos now you will have to relase systems you cant really control. now who gets those systems and what will they do with them? very interesting stuff.big battle will certainly happen when important systems will be contested. sov is still new and everyone is learnign from mistakes and succescess of others and themselves. everyone is watching."
"dunno what dream you are dreaming but keep dreaming while you dream that dream my alliance is holding an entire region and we have nowhere near enough dudes to be active in every system. yet outside of \"the imperium\", nc. & pl you cannot take it from us. sure as hell you can rf some systems and even take some but can you actually life there? no you cannot we'd probably even let your ****** alliance number 1209 take a station wait for you to get settled and once you do we'd crush you with a hammer.the new sov system does not change the fact that power is power. just because you can take sov does not mean it is viable. the mare presence of a superior capital and super capital force is more than enough to keep full control of a region."
"throwing the gold apple in, \"you don't use it for mining and ratting, so you are not using it and deserve to lose it. this makes it easy for small alliances to get some space,\" seems to be the general counter argument.1) said many times, there is more than those two ways to use systems.2) easy into space, easy out. these systems are honey traps and make delicious snacks for the huge estabilished alliances to farm and feed upon.this is not some amazing equality mechanics, it is annoying for defenders who are griefed and it is devastatingly crushing for the naive."
"*straps into her seat and slaps a helmet on, popcorn in hand*oh ho ho, this thread is going places, and i am ready for the ride."
"jeeez, learn 2 think, it not too hard to get the solution: from rental to extortion... and just get a bigger coalition than your neighbour > problem solved"
"that would require being able to make credible threats."
"1) where is popcorn?2) do you have salted caramel popcorn? 3) i <3 new sov."
"because you don't care about it thats why you love it. for people who don't care about it and all they care about is griefing potential the new system sure is amazing no denying that. now if that makes a good system thats a different question entirely."
"this is funny coming from someone who has no sov and does nothing but fly troll ceptors. we've tried fighting nulli, all we've found is they run away even faster then darkeshi.i have nothing really against the idea of fozzie sov but its just so broken and lopsided.my suggestions for fixing it (everyone who has sov has some).-hard cap the speed of etosis ships, t1 1000m/s t2 1500m/s-if no nodes are being attacked the defender gets 5% back ever hour.done fixed, maybe then we'll get some fights out of this joke instead of experiencing world of cowards."
"i love fozziesov!it's so good we should allow it to affect all stations and structures in all of new eden. at the very minimum ls and npc ns....i mean it's great right? everyone should be given the opportunity to love fozziesov in game by promulgating it everywhere.in all seriousness...it's boring. fozziesov is boring to defend and it is boring to attack.fozzie (and his team) have replaced one type of grind with a more horrible type of grind.ccp has allowed the rise of a juvenile level of play with fozziesov that in the end will cause major power blocks to become bigger and stronger. ccp continues to ignore and understand the human condition and how it affects the sandbox. making game mechanics that run counter to that tide only destroy a game.the best quote i have heard from a member of an entosis fleet, \"this is worse than mining\"that said...i think everyone should be given the opportunity to \"adapt\" to a horrible and boring mechanic."
"imo fozziesov is awful and basically undercuts alot of what was unique to eve. it shouldnt have been implemented and it should be rolled back."
"to those who say that \"you should not claim more than you can actually occupy\" - i can hardly see any changes regarding the number of sov holding alliances after the fozziesov. in other words - the sov change was intended to make people actually go and capture 0.0 space, but someone had forgotten that it's actually held by big nullsec alliances that will protect it. and it actually does't matter if someone will claim some god forgotten system anywhere in space - those guys won't be able to live there cause the same big sov holding alliance will sit in it 24\7 and\or just pop any incoming ships. i think the correct term is \"power projection\". that's why we have what we have, and such changes as fozziesov will never change it. ccp has to understand 1 simple thing - people come to 0.0 for blob warfare, so the only thing they have to change is to create something worthy to fight for. currenly, sov itself brings no such benefits (r64 moons, for example, are not sov-dependent at all).so i would like to support the op and ask ccp to respect the hours that nullsec players had spent capturing all that they have and stop that crap with entosis-inties. (been there, done that. 20 minutes to rf a station in a lone intie ! really ?) at least make the same as siege mechanics (speed 0, pg \ cpu depentent, bc \ bs size, etc etc)."
"so it takes \"some getting serious\". if so that demonstrates the flawed base of this system. i know everyone hated dominonsov, i didn't like it either, but in that system and the \"pos spam\" system before if, you had to come in \"serious\" in the 1st place if you wanted to do anything with sov.the 'focus' of this sov system is off, and one of the side effects is that it does produce boring cat and mouse skirmishes rather than encouraging people to actually fight.. this gives big groups the ability to wear smaller groups down even easier than in dominion sov, already i'm finding it harder and harder to join up with a fleet because i kow it's going to be a hour or two of chasing/killing ceptors and fighting slippery pete tengus or hit and run \"but not serious about sov\" tornado or t3d gangs.it's just not fun at all. i'm amazed at how fozzie group could take something fairly grindy and boring (dominion sov and it's structure grinding) and make it more boring (mininglasersov). fozzie said in an interview that it was between this system and a kind of \"sovless sov\". from where i'm sitting, they chose wrong, sovless sov might have been way better than this current experience, ccp \"iterating\" on this system will simply be the act of polishing a turd."
"sure enough, but why?ofc you can keep doing what you are doing, but burnout will be real.that's not to say that current system don't have to be tweaked, but gotta face what we have right now."
"i personally believe that some nullsecs are unable to do fozzie sov because some out there in our game don't even have maps and i believe that our education in the new system like such as in scadling pass and the thrium reach and everywhere like such as, and, i believe that they should practice sov when the lowsec and pvp comes to take it, our education over here in the nullsecs should help the nulls., and should help nullsecs understand the need of small fight and not big and should help the future and the rus renter allices, so we will be able to build up our future for our children play new eve's fozzie sov and make greater battle but smaller.this is the future where no more big renter blib. and no crying change it and threats not welcomed at all said."
"for emphasis. i think this is the motive behind most of the noise supporting fozzie sov.p.s. glasgow, learn to ascii."
"i have nothing to do with sov living in lowsec but you have my axe and my merry band of men"
"as a casual pvper i have to say this last month has been the absolute crap experience since the old pos spam days. i would rather have dominion sov back over this turd. fozzie has is essence head shotted all of null sec in one patch. went from finding gangs of roaming t3 cruisers, bcs, and other things in enemy space to only finding interceptors galore and t3 destroyers. all the \"good fights\" have died out. i think we need to force all the ccp employees to join a new alliance out here in null sec and troll ceptor the **** out of them."
"i can understand that people don't like change and that those notifications popping up all the time might be annoying, but hey were you actually using those systems?dominion was stagnant, tedious and mostly just a pain.you'd have a target or two, reinforce it or them, wait and then blap it. all very nice if you like reading or have a show you can watch.not much difference between taking sov, stations, poses or pocos...then comes fozziesov... (still not finished as far as i can see)yeah! it needs tweaking, but hey its ccp!its a race and exausting, but having sov isn't suposed to be \"we don't use the system, but cyno in the caps!\"hey, if you actually used the system and it is under attack, you would know \"who, what and where\"also... wait for it... it's you sov, you defend it!apologies for ranting slightly, but contiuing on.... most of the points by op are mostly mewling that the safety of dominion sov is no longer there. they can no longer \"sell or buy\" systems. oh, and renters can nab the sov... if they so please, after all its them using not you...to conclude, i believe that fozziesov is here to stay, though tweaked.yours, rambling slightlyhinamori tsesuda"
"yes, we are. now try think of all the ways that we do that aren't mining or ratting.give you a hint to start you off; there are other infrastructure hub upgrades."
"so any way, now that the buggy whip manufacturers have vented their pwecious feewings about allowing those nasty horrible auto-mobiles on the roads..."
"yes, it's very obvious that a larger entity with supers can evict a smaller one. aegis sov wasn't meant to alter that. the question is whether you'll be able to handle, mentally, the challenges to your unoccupied areas (see the earlier post by emma kado on corvos's tactics.) if you enjoy the process of capturing command nodes and can avoid getting burned out from it, more power to ya! o7"
"not an empty quote.\"it's only because of their stupidity that they're able to be so sure of themselves.\" the trial - franz kafka"
"so. i saw two of the most frequent opinions: 1) you crying about your rent/rmt empire 2) you doing it wrong, adapt.well, let's see in facts.fact #1. only one who can say \"they doing rmt\". this is ccp. if it says someone else, it's just unsubstantiated allegations. as coceo i spend for my alliance 200$ per month for characters, hosting, licences and other stuff. i have good job and i don't need rmt.fact #2. in last half of year we gave 45% of space for friends, allies and small alliances who wants to try themself as sov-nullsec players. space for free. for free, carl! and process continues. year ago all this space was under rent. when i read that the petition is aimed for preservation rent empire i laugh (like philip philipovich in novel \"heart of a dog\"). this is absolutly wrong. fozziesov just boring and exhausting mechanics - that a point.about adaptation. we (i mean gemico first) had two weeks of new sov war. i wrote full and detailed report about one of them on russian forum few days ago. translation can be found here. we prepared doctrine, plan and changed fleet behaviour. what we got? hours of rat race. in summary of two weeks we spent 22 hours, got 3 fights hit-a-run rat races. i was coordinator and for myself i got at least 15 of files with information about nodes, patrols and etc (like this). eve always been a game of routine. but now amount of routine is max that i ever seen in last 7.5 years of my game in eve. fortunately i'm a programmer and i can try to help myself. me and another guy from xix made prototype in 2 days. idk, why ccp didn't same thing. maybe they just lazy. they happy cos their players not lazy.conclusionwe are not against fozziesov at all. new mechanics can be enteresting. really. small groups, coordination, all pilots must be much more clever and etc. all it is good. but mechanics have too much bad parts right now. they must be fixed."
"you guys are stuck in the old method, you got comfortable for years with sov now you have to adapt and actually \"work\" for your sovhence you are bitchinadapt or die as anything else in eve :)thanks for the hilarity of this post"
"you guy is stuck in young age and can't into text."
"what does that even mean?"
"goonswarm federation: 103 systems, ~14k members. very few systems being sovlazored. fozzie sov is okay.legion of xxdeathxx: 96 systems, ~1.7k members. omg it's all on fire fozziesov sux!!!1!1!!1!oneshadow of xxdeathxx: 253 systems, ~2k members. omg fozziesov sux!!! ccp change it!!!!1!!1!!!!111!onei'm beginning to see a pattern here.\"it's only because of their stupidity that they're able to be so sure of themselves.\" the trial - franz kafka"
"+1 :)"
"only thing i see here is russians crying that everything is on fire and they cant run their rmt empire anymore, because they dont have enough people to properly hold the sov they have, hell as much as i hate cfc they actually make smart decisions, such as downsizing their sov count to properly accomidate their entire memberbase"
"aha, fozziesov is ok."
"so the answer is we should recruit everyone with a pulse and carebear till then end of eve.why fight when you can shoot rats and rocks all day?"
"or... try holding onto only one system per 100 alliance members?"
"are targets going to be belt-ratting in unoccupied systems? at least there is something to engage in sov, and the owning alliance gets a mail to say 'turn up for fight'.if the launcher explains that there are 20-40k players online any given time, and picturing that people log in / out every minute, it makes more sense for people online for more than an hour to own more systems than 1:100players, so they can co-ordinate fights.log-in, sit in system, wait for ratter. on the other side of the coin is 'log-in, wait to defend'. this is the reason interceptor entosis is not enjoyable, there is no fight, it's literally 'turn up here to see an interceptor'. the aggressing alliance should already have enough sov for their 1:100 pilot ratio, 14k pilots gives 140 systems? 828 empty systems? what about hi-sec/low-sec/wh players?null-sec sov holders want to own more sov than they can manage to have an abundance of possible fights.600bil isk is 50 years of subscription if you aren't losing ships. last i saw ccp had an e-mail address for plex purchases over 300."
"so my alliance should hold one constellation and carebear the **** out of it until we die of bordem?we aren't going to get more fights that way, it promotes pve to an extreme extent. this change is toxic to eve, we get no fights, we get no fun and we spend stupid amounts of time orbiting a structure because one guy can spent 10min of his time to waste almost 2 hours of our time and we have to turn up to every single one because some moron thought it would be great to make it stay that way forever because defenders should turn up and waste massive amounts of time, even if the \"attacker\" (rolls eyes) has no intention of turning up because why? because **** anyone trying to hold more then 1 system per 100 players? come down here and try holding sov you piece of **** and see how you like watching the guys you play the game with get less and less active and probably quit the game given enough time, all because some moron in ccp had a \"good idea\".we didn't like dominion sov, but we ******* hate this coward carebear piece of **** that replaced it."
"i don't care if you halve capital ship dps and tank, give them a damn role already."
"an amusing thing about this thread is that it's a repeat of the past. when dominion came and it's sov system hit, we saw the same kind of discussion.\"you just don't like change\"\"you don't like how small groups can come in and take your stuff because you can't just spam poses anymore\"\"you'll get used to it\"\"the old system was stagnant, this one is much better, now all you have to do is shoot 1 i-hub instead 20 poses!!\"it's like battlestar galactica, this is happened before, and it will happen again, mainly because some people can't be critical of a thing until they've had 6 years of it to understand why it's bad.....good news is the year 2021 is right around the corner."
"1. reduce number of nodes to 5.2. leave entosis fitting requirements alone but reduce the time required to complete one-sided events (e.g. no defence or no offence). maybe #1 is adequate for this but if not they should degrade over time. 3. reduce the effect of the sovereignty index - it should be less tedious to take space that is held but not used. 4. there should also be some sort of depletion mechanic to encourage resource competition. moons? or convert r32 and below to depleting mining sigs."
"he shoots, he scores!!!!some people are on the pitch......"
"use your space, and only have a three hour window of vulnerability where attackers have to entosis for almost an hour, or run around putting out sov fires for 18 hours a day while an attacker can just take ten minutes to f*** your s*** up, your choice.it seems to me that you have gone with this third option.\"it's only because of their stupidity that they're able to be so sure of themselves.\" the trial - franz kafka"
"then there's the recruitment option. where you recruit people to handle the carebearing for you, leaving you to defend your space, and attack other space.(the system's not perfect. it needs work. but some of the complaints i'm seeing are a touch inane)"
"caps aren't in the world best position right now. i don't think anyone is disagreeing there.exactly what role they should have, that's the interesting question. if you have any thoughts, i'd certainly like to hear them"
"shh! don't tell them, i want them crying because they have to crab to get the indexes up. delicious tears.truth!\"it's only because of their stupidity that they're able to be so sure of themselves.\" the trial - franz kafka"
"your issue here is that you are equating sov with fights.the two are only tangentially related, not a direct correlation.try doing other things to get fights.also, who cares if there are empty systems? that's systems you then don't have to waste time with if you are searching for a large scale fight against another null alliance. just go direct to their active systems with a battleship fleet, wait for them to escalate, then drop your own cyno's. hey presto, massive fight.or just jump a titan in with said bs fleet, and watch the server go crazy.if you want a big cap fight, look at the actual reasons big cap fights have happened. nothing to do with nibbling away at unimportant sov and troll roams. those happened under the old sov mechanics as well, cloaky roams almost never escalated to titan fights. it was form ups over critical hub systems, or a tackled titan (who may have pressed jump not bridge) that made the big fights. so use those reasons, not sov for the sake of sov."
"this. if you are spending hours repairing the damage done when you didn't bother to defend your system in the first place then you have yourself to blame.marech."
"that's rich. the alliance i'm in rents from tri and they seem to be ok with hassle free income from us renters."
"if people aren't liking fozziesov, i heard that wormhole space has plenty of unoccupied systems for people to take"
"i disagree with the limitations suggested on entosing.based on my observations is the majority of this large alliances althought they are very powerfull they all have the same issue.the issue is vast amount of unused space. every second system its empty. as a result large amount of jumps have to be perfomed. this is specially true in the drone region, cfc space and catch. the drone region been the worst where only 3 out of 10 systems are actually in use. i think its time they adjust the amount of sov systems the occupy from the ones they dont really occupy. if you drop those unused space you dont have to defend it. why keep sov if you dont use it?we see this all the time with the cfc. we got people coming from all the corners of the globe for a 20 man fleet and they show up in 80+ minimum. they even bring supers and carriers. the amount of jumps they are doing is too much and all because they want to keep vast amount of empty space which they clearly are having difficulty defending. drop sov systems and get your numbers into the core system. if you look at the systems that are been attacked, the vast majority are insignificant systems cos no one lives in them aka empty.i believe the worst idea is to give zero m/s speed to entosis ships. why would anybody bother entosing if all you have to do is jump a titan and snipe it. after all cfc has tried to do this many times already.i can tell you this with all sincerity. we have been waiting for this changes forever. now that they are here we are trully enjoying it. we finally can actually herass a larger entity and pick a fight when we want and disapear into the jungle when we dont want to fight them. i think now gorilla warfare has a great future in eve at the momment. we have forced the cfc to reevalute their possition and hire lots of renters to keep the indexes of their systems up. this is what a 1000 man alliance has been able to archive vs a 50k coalition of alliances.i only ask ccp to look at the sov systems and see how many are actually have presence or used effectively. the truth is right there! you are keeping systems you can not defend and expanded way too much and therefore you spend most of the night jumping way too much."
"i dunno, man, telling me to make a choice comes pretty close to cyber-bullying me. it's a slippery slope that ends up with me being entirely to blame if i fail-fit my ship, should i decide to keep playing. hang on, you're one of that personal responsibility rabble, aren't you? ccp, please stop him posting - it's a form of enhanced interrogation when he keeps doing that."
"whilst i agreed with the bulk of your post, this is just silly and i would have thought you could do better."
"op i suggest reading all of ccp_falcon's posts in the linked thread.ganking in hi sec is an absolutely intended and allowed part of the game. it is not bullying.posting screenshots on a public web page, of in game mail and private chat including in game identities, with or without the intent of belittling or antagonising might walk closer to the line. however as long as it stays in character it won't be seen by ccp as bullying or rl griefing."
"nope :)"
"you need to understand that people in all parts of space are there for a variety of reasons. i live in null, have never been part of a blob, and am happy about that.marech."
"those are not problems they are features."
"games should be fun, not a love hate relationship. if games stop being fun they become something we try to get detached from and relax: reality. reality with the daily mundane grind and eventual cubicle romance decorated with post-it sentimental reminders to buy toilet paper on the way back home.and so it goes eve online seems more and more like a failing marriage. a lot of effort put into it but... ya know. yeah i know eve is real but... ya know.alt tabbing to play another game while playing a game is... ya know... adultery. ccp better not ask what other people are playing while alt tabbing, might find out they're being cheated with farmville... ya know..."
"the \"cfc\" actually has one of the highest player per system densities in sov null."
"i beg to differ. go into pure blind and see. you will be hard pressed to find many cfc's. fade , tribute has also alot of systems as well as space around venal. a lot of unused systems or has very little people in system. the only real region that get alot of use is deklein and branch. also its in the ratting statistics! which also prove my point. i know where i live after all i kill in it every day and do several roams."
"before the aegis expansion, pure blind was really not good space. most of what we have of pure blind has really bad truesec, none of the \"good\" anomalies would spawn even if we ratted it up to level 5, and even then pure blind was not \"ours\" to rat in. then six days before aegis hits bam! fozzie drops that on us. suddenly all that cruddy space no one really wanted, or could use unless it had a money moon or jump bridge, had a lot less suck attached to it. hell, people are going to be able to actually make some money in them running the anomalies, not as great as with \"good\" truesec systems, but decent isk none the less. that last minute change caught us off guard, and a few of us are trying to rectify that. talk to a goonswarm rental agent today. (certain terms and conditions apply.)\"it's only because of their stupidity that they're able to be so sure of themselves.\" the trial - franz kafka"
"i too can cherry pick data points....let me see,goonswarm: 13954/103 = 135.5 pilots/systemfcon: 4896/80 = 61.2 pilots/systemco2: 2857/34 = 84 pilots/systemget off my lawn: = 2121/53 = 40 pilots/systemexe: 1221/14 = 87 pilots/systemcompare this too legion of death, shadow of death, brothers of tangra and we see vastly smaller numbers as in the teens or even single digits for shadow of death.does this mean that each and every system in deklein will have 135.5 pilots in it? no, it's an average. some will have more, some less. keeping in mind that not all of them will be logged in at once either.so now we know why some alliances are struggling with fozziesov. i'd say working as intended (note: i'm not saying it is good or bad here, but if the intent was to free up unused systems...well, sounds like it is going to happen one way or the other....). if you insist on remaining as an \"elite and exclusive alliance\" and also insist on holding a large number of systems....you are going to be very busy going forward in game.this information was presented earlier too."
"problem: nullsec got all buddy-buddy, made non-aggression pacts and wouldnt fight except one staged fight per year to ensure that ccp was nullsecs b**ch, since ccp needed that one fight for advertising purposes.solution: introduce new game mechanics so that smaller groups that are not part of the buddy-buddy system can stir up nullsec and get them to actually defend their holdings.we can check this one off and look at nullsecs thread which should have been titled, \"pout, stomp our feet and cry like a two year old\", as proof of effectiveness.problem: nullsec apparently cannot combat low skill pilots.solution: everyone that has every been ganked by a nullsec 3 week old pilot laughs their collective asses off and decries nullsecs attitude on the subject as seriously hypocritical.problem: nullsec that has long held that ccp shouldnt be holding players hands suddenly wants theirs held.solution: stand agape at the criminal levels of hypocrisy nullsec is showing on the issue, and of course laugh our asses off some more.problem: seeming exploit allows entosing attacker to move the defense window.solution: hotfix the issue because unlike the rest of this pout-fest this is actually a real problem that needs addressing.problem: nullsec doesnt like being annoyed, while spending more than a decade doing this to the rest of eve.solution: i have to use the word hypocrisy yet again, seriously, wtf ???problem: nullsec is so accustomed to sitting on their collective asses they cant be bothered to go collect intel on an agressor.solution: do nothing but at the same time wonder out loud why the f*** were game mecahnics in place that would allow these lazy asses to hold sov for so long when it has become abundantly clear that they dont deserve their holdings ?problem: alliances want to work together in close knit cooperative groups again like the, 'good ol days\".solution: repeat oft used nullsec mantra frequently heard when highsec didnt want some change put into the game, adapt and htfu !yawn, i'm right as usual. the predictability kinda gets boring really."
"*snicker**snort*"
"death star is a good start for a role."
"no, working together in close knit cooperative groups is the solution."
"i dunno, it just doesn't have the same \"righteous retribution for your high sec crimes\" vibe which is needed."
"these guys are doing it right up until pl and the imperium hell camp every single one of their systems and break them in one swift and brutal campaign, which will be made even more brutal when stations can be destroyed. however i like what i am seeing so far and that people who control space without using it are complaining.many of the russians alliances operating around stain still have a ton of people doing missions in stain, they should be kicking them to work on the adm.edit: one thing i want to say on this is that a lot of those alliances need to create a buffer zone of systems and stations to get around the hell camp risk from one of the super powers, that is their additional cost so to speak. i am also interested to see just how far from the npc areas pl will move for a campaign, will be interesting to see. and a final off topic comment, good catch to the initiative on that ncdot move, i have always had a certain level of respect for the initiative. blocked: teckos pech, sonya corvinus, baltec1, shae tadaruwa, wander prian, daichi yamato, jonah gravenstein, merin ryskin, linus gorp"
"pvesov, the hero we deserve"
"so guys, let's have 20-200 unoccupied systems we cannot realisticslly cover and let's moan when we have to do something to defend them.fozziesov is fundamentally right, it just needs some tweaks. defend the systems where you live, don't care about the systems where you don't live. seems like people tend to freak out when they cannot have millions of empty systems for renting.i feel that only a couple of alliances actually bothered to think further than \"muh rentals\", really."
"you are repeating what i already mentioned abov about the drone region having the largest unoccupied space. cfc still has lot of space unoccupied and that forces them to do vast jumps. if it wasnt they will not be coming from declein+branch to pure blind. wether the space is good or bad it does not make a difference. you do not live in pure blind so makes it useless having to defend it. if you want to keep them fine, more entosis for me, but dont whine then when you got to do a lot of jumps to defend. make up your mind. you cant have everything favouring your side. you got to make a choice and select what space you want to keep. and if the space is too far, then it may not be to the best interest to protect specially if you dont live in it. which is my point. i love gorrilla warfare and entosing is a really big plus for us.entosis has really given birth to gorrilla warfare, which i think its fantastic. i feel like we are going back to the old days of small numbers war which is very opposite to the piling up in a system of as many people as possible to make sure they have loaded the grid first and obtain the advantage that way and win. large battle will happen no matter what."
"but the point that is being so graphically, if unintentionally, illustrated by this thread is that sov space will now belong to the people who want it enough to keep fighting for it. pl may well come visit them, sure. how long will they stay and fight for it?"
"mordus' ceptors, eh.make the most of trollsov."
"all the last 7 systems we entosed were corm fleet. get it right . its not troll sov its called guerilla tactics and not letting you breath.i entosed one in a cruiser the other day and attempted to get a second"
"has anyone lost a their capital yet?or is just systems in the middle of nowhere that defenders have no presence?"
"wouldn't passing sov to another entity give a 7 day invulnerability boon?if so, eek! how simple to make it impossible to take that space as 6 days and 23 hours after the first transfer, you just push it back to the original owners for another 7 days invulnerability?i'd sooner there was zero ways to sneak that in."
"yes you are right i do not disagree, however those alliances have to have a strategy to deal with the two super powers coming for good fights which us lessor mortals know as being a total curb stomp, so do you set up to play smart or do you set yourself up to be a harvest of tears, being limited to only the systems you can defend makes the curb stomp so much more likely and i really wonder just how that will pan out with destructible stations. you know the answer because that is why you guys joined the imperium, before aegis sov that is true, but you understood that! blocked: teckos pech, sonya corvinus, baltec1, shae tadaruwa, wander prian, daichi yamato, jonah gravenstein, merin ryskin, linus gorp"
"well actually we keep our stuff in npc 0.0 and pretty much always have done."
"if you want it more than them, you'll deserve it and you'll get it.if they care enough about a system to put a couple of rlml caracals and a damp keres into it, then you won't."
"this is beneath you. show us where you stand on the \"merits\" of fozzie sov that have not already been shot down. in other words, \"can you grief a system until they give up defending it or can you ecm until they give up griefing?\"i think at this point, you are harping on about the story you bought when fozzie's team conceived this abortion and now you can't let it go.\"htfu\" \"we are hard and bored / not interested.\"dominion sov took how long for half the player base to be bored of it? how many years? fozzie sov has hit that point in three weeks.it is sov dumbed down and less engaging."
"now, thats embarasing. it did not have approval of the alliance. i guess scratch that name from the list then"
"you should hang out with ru community sometimes. if someone thought that \"textbook goon\" had a low opinion on average \"pubbie\", he'd have a lot to re-evaluate after the experience.and you guys are suggesting them to not just tolerate, but recruit such people. jokes on you."
"eve community is a strange.saying \"a peaceful mining barge of a new player must be immune to the attack of a t1 destroyer\" is hilarious tears, and the reply is htfu & l2p.saying \"the trillion isk printing machine of the 1000+ strong empires ran by the oldest players must be immune to the attack of an entosis ship\" is a serious suggestion and get +1s."
"and you just showed what a silly bean you are, the thing about mining barges and exhumers is that their tank should be able to tak a single t1 destroyer until concord arrive in a 0.5 system, personally i would make it about 4 t1 destroyers in a 0.5 system. there you go requires a team approach which is what eve is all about, those people can now go htfu and play as a team..., wait that only applies to mission runners and the like as they keep sprouting on and on in the forums, facepalm and all that!i agree with you on the second part of your post, these people deserve to lose their space, i was shocked at tri signing on to that but found it to be an out of touch ceo, what ho and all that. i am in stain at the moment and i see loads of these people running level 4 missions, including the mission alt of the leader of the soviet-union alliance, their crying is so funny when their leaders can't even do the grind... blocked: teckos pech, sonya corvinus, baltec1, shae tadaruwa, wander prian, daichi yamato, jonah gravenstein, merin ryskin, linus gorp"
"what you mean strategic work to enable your pvp group to do their job easier, you should go speak to your alliance leader again, he certainly understands it! blocked: teckos pech, sonya corvinus, baltec1, shae tadaruwa, wander prian, daichi yamato, jonah gravenstein, merin ryskin, linus gorp"
"we asked tweaks to make sov matters less frustrating and more managable by both attacker and defender and to eliminate trollceptors.does this make our empires immune? nodoes this makes sov warfare far better? yescan you read what we wrote? nodo you just want to random flame and feel considered? yesps i agree ccp should help new players too btw"
"high-sec miners are telling you to htfu .. and to adapt or die."
"check my post history, i...- create threads to try give miners more \"stand and fight\" rather than \"dock or die\".- support further walking in stations development.- would like to see t1 industrials become less paper thin.- am a logi anchor and occasional fleet commander for a null sec alliance.- lead a group that raids worm holes mostly for loot but we fit to pvp if we run into someone.and i say that this fozzie sov is a step backwards because it is making the sov mechanics childish and slow.you can no longer make a composition and fits for damage to grind faster.you can no longer improve your repair ships to fix the structures faster.now all you do is wave a wand from pretty much any ship.utter garbage. / / / / (what ever the heck label suits you today.)"
"fuzzisov just got rolled in and tears are filling the buckets!many big/massive alliances whining about new sov mechanics. they whining that they can't defend themselves from small groups of people. and their unused space gets attacked. they crying like babies instead of embracing the new system. fuzz has just started and amount of fun and game content we have has simply skyrocketed 1000% for us. all these cry-baby egoistic multi-region sov holders see is way to manage other peeps, to force them to pay rent, to make isk isk isk. they are the reason ccp changed this game so drastically. fuzz sov means who ever has sov, needs to live in it and protect it, as opposed to \"safely hold\" sov and whoever challenges it, to blob any challenger with blob of peeps and caps/supers.stop crying and get on board! ccp you doing a great job! nerf the moon milk cows next and fix poses. long live fuzz sov!best thing that happened to eve in 10 years!!!"
"awesome changes! ccp doing it right. it's game mechanics now, stop crying and conform. sov holders will not be able to hold empty systems that cannot be defended from now. all your tears are about losing surplus profit. a lot of capsuleers now have more fun then ever. and guys, your whining is miserable."
"are you going to go back to crying when we get the adm up to max in pure blind so that you have to actually take almost an hour rather than the 10 to 20 minute trolling that your doing presently?\"it's only because of their stupidity that they're able to be so sure of themselves.\" the trial - franz kafka"
"thats ok. i did one that was 40 + minutes long the othere day and reinforced it. =)if you think thats going to stop us from entosing it, well you are so wrong"
"i personally think thar fuzzisov was a good idea for ccp to implement. it was a way for them to break up the complete strangleholds that the larger alliances such as goonswarm have held on the their regions (such as pureblind, delkin, etc). but the way that ccp introduced the system was a little sloppy in the sense that it does allow things like the troll ceptor and the trolltron to be used by a single person to completely mess up an entire system. while i currently have no thoughts on how exactly this system can be fixed i do feel that possibly increasing the time of the entosis link cycle or maybe reducing the vulnerability time windows (forcing people that may want to take the system to actually form a somewhat sizeable fleet) may help reduce the tension and frustration that this new system has caused untill a somewhat agreeable fix has been decided upon. remember guys the reason that ccp did this was to in a sense throw a monkey wrench of sorts in to the stagnated area of null sec so let try and respect their decision and not bash them for it but help them find the solution to make fuzzisov work."
"you want what was instead of what is the new reality of nullsec. if your species cannot adapt then like non-adaptive species before you-you will become extinct as you should and some new more adaptable species will take your space.working as intended....yawn, i'm right as usual. the predictability kinda gets boring really."
"nullsec had years to fight and chose non-agression pacts instead making a change to nullsec mechanics a must. one of the nullsecs mantras thrown at highsec for years, 'you have a choice', and in this case you have a choice, fight for your sov or lose it.god i love using your own tired old mantras back at nullsec!yawn, i'm right as usual. the predictability kinda gets boring really."
"no actually, the space could just be left empty, that's what you'd expect from trollsov after all."
"people make more isk/hr running npc l4's according to some accounts.i'm worse on twitter, but to cover a few things;i'm pointing at interceptors. i'm of the persuasion that holding sov encourages group conflict as a conflict driver.i'm of the understanding that isk generation is not the be all and end all of null-sec.i'm of the opinion that larger sov can be retained by having a blops / recon (rapier, surprisingly) in each edge system with a fleet in the most populated system able to accept local bridging.i'm also looking at this from a development perspective.if i want an even chance for alliance members to utilise developed systems, i'll develop more systems than just leaving 100 alliance members to fight for the one developed system's catches.i'm also looking at specific mineral requisition. i don't like the idea of leaving a system near my space untouched while i cope with ore distribution in my developed industry system and then long hauling any expedited mineral demands from those undeveloped systems nearby, unrefined. it doesn't leave any wiggle room for nerfs / strength increases as fozzie further balances ships. exposure is not a position players are forced into with the right planning.this 'small is power' approach being put forward for defense would mean the same as a hi-sec to null invasion, eventually you run out of things you need to meet your own objectives, this for me was the reason larger fleets increased their efficiency using 1-time cost drones instead of running account ammo."
"after 3 evenings of pvping in fuzzysov i already realize that it is a huge content generator and for that i love it !thank you for the best patch i've seen in eve cpp !i do strongly disagree with the blobbers complaint about harassment by smaller entities. due to the asymmetric mechanics the attackers/harassers have to put in a multitude of the manhours for entosising that the defenders have to commit. if the defender is twice the size of the attackers and needs only half the manpower when playing it right and still cant hold his space then he doesn't ******* deserve it. period. get out of 0.0 blobber garbage. now !of course the carebears are crying now who have been hiding behind millions of structure hitpoints for years reducing the game to a ******** boring blob fest with no skill required but social networking. of course they got bad at pvp over the years that way. it's only natural if you dont keep excercising.sov space was always meant as something you had to earn by fighting for it and not as your birthright by inheritance. i see big alliances complaining here who outnumber us anywhere between 2:1 to 10:1 in daily engagements. if they are not willing to split into smaller groups to contest the different aggressors because of being scared to bear the responsibility of loosing a fight against an entity that specializes into skirmishes it is their own fault if they loose contests for timers.if anything it is still way to easy for large alliances to defend sov after aegis. the only way they can ever loose space is by not showing up for fights. all a numerically superior force would have to do is split up on the different command nodes. i hope that this tear fest will not sway ccp to make any changes. after all this new sov system was proposed, supported and signed off by the leaders of the big alliances beforehand.and now they are crying ..."
"and when we discovered that we would actually have to use our sov and dear god defend it against all agressors both large and small you used all that baited breath to wail like infants that defending your sov is something ccp should be doing for you.well done!yawn, i'm right as usual. the predictability kinda gets boring really."
"reading your words, seems to me that you like to see an empty null sec space instead of a full one with many targets.are you monitorizing the game? are you aware that peolple are leaving null sec space? do you think they will come back to take sov?no mate, they dont want the sov, they just want to live in null and they are half of the players, did you know that? small corps cant just hold sov, they dont want to fight all day long, they dont care about cta<U+FFFD>s (some of them are f... tired about that), they only want to play a few hours, if they cant do that in null, well, they will do it in hs or low sec, sometimes they go into a wh just for the fun and its done, can you just imagine who will going to lose in the end? of course, null sec will lose in the end and pvpeers in null will get bored, this is what you are asking for, when you have no targets and nothing to do what are you going to do? mine? wait you are not going to mine, ccp are going to give one bot for that, so you have to rat, rat, rat and rat again, of course you can always come to hs kill miners (if there are any at that time) or kill some mission runners until the day you will have nothing to kill, then you will say to yourself that you have been wrong all the time and its time for you to leave the game.even with dominion sov, people are not going to null just because they cant move their assets due the capital nerf... people want their assets there, not buying new ones, they have their assets.you realized how many people have left the game since ccp have nerfed capitals and wh<U+FFFD>s industry and mining?2 years ago on europe primetime we had about 54.000 players, now we have at the most 32.000, this sounds good to you? ccp are collecting what he have seeded."
"to hold that up as some kind of threat means you're being mislead by the purpose of moa or any other small alliance. it's never been about the value of that moon, pos, or station to us, it's been about the fight. it's been about undocking the ship and finding a way to make you win or lose something. if you're in moa or any of other smaller groups, it's never been about how to get rich or to have a titan, if that was the case we would just join you. we are here to play the game and if that means spending 2 hours with an entosis link on an interceptor we will do it, and your friends whining about how easy it is for us to outrun you when you land on us with a leviathan is fun and worth the effort. bring us renters in pure blind, our new mission will be to send them running with their tails between their legs. we will show up in corms and blast their t2's out of space like we always have.welcome back to null sec.\"keep them bubbled til they puke.\"-gen eve"
"from what im seeing in this whine thread it seems like war has broken out everywhere, you just dont like the style and someone elses fun shouldnt be nerfed just because you dont like it.yawn, i'm right as usual. the predictability kinda gets boring really."
"read until the part where someone from mordus angels accused somebody else of being bad at pvp. was laughing to hard for further reading."
"oh boy, i can't wait until ccp swaps the old pos / outpost structures for the new ones, where you'll be able to entosis your way right through someone's afk moon mining enterprise. that's going to be some good show."
"does nullsec think that burn jita is fun for those burnt to a crisp, does nullsec think miners enjoyed hulkageddon?dear god the meter that registers the hypocrisy flowing out of nullsec must be pegged at 100% and straining to go behind even that percentage.yawn, i'm right as usual. the predictability kinda gets boring really."
"yeah, it ia a lot more fun holding sov you dont use, dont have to defend because of non-agression pacts and calling for highsec nerfs 23/7 because you had nothing better to do with your time, im sure you loved it.yawn, i'm right as usual. the predictability kinda gets boring really."
"players whining isnt justification for rolling back game changes and thankfully so.yawn, i'm right as usual. the predictability kinda gets boring really."
"ill reword this so it is more clear:1. we want old nullsec sov because we cant seem to fight frigates with titans.....to which i say, really, shocking!2. i dont like actually fighting for my sov unless the fight is one im sure to win.yawn, i'm right as usual. the predictability kinda gets boring really."
"for all you whiners that don't like fozzie sov:\"htfu\"~ ccpi think fozzie sov is one of the best things that has happen'd to this game. adapt or die!"
"qft"
"you use the loaded word abusing when what is actually occurring is you are using fair game mechanics to make life uncomfortable for another sov. as you should.you are not committed to taking their space and i believe you but your implication that all people using this system think as you do is fallacious since you do not know their designs.the current consensus you are speaking of is coming from the very groups this system was intended to upset and the system is doing just that, thanks for pointing that out.yawn, i'm right as usual. the predictability kinda gets boring really."
"you find it sour, or bitter, i find it sweet.\"it's only because of their stupidity that they're able to be so sure of themselves.\" the trial - franz kafka"
"fozziesov is the best thing happened in eve for a long time. finally sov alliances get to really defend their space and mostly the space they don't use."
"so you are having to fight, sounds good keep up the good work!yawn, i'm right as usual. the predictability kinda gets boring really."
"what is keeping you from using fozziesov as a tool to engage sov holders in battle, nothing????i think we have found the problem.yawn, i'm right as usual. the predictability kinda gets boring really."
"who said you have to idly sit back and do nothing with the new game mechanics, who insists you cannot attack your neighbor? you should have had to always defend what you have and steal your neighbors space.yawn, i'm right as usual. the predictability kinda gets boring really."
"if you have not been there for a few weeks then it is time to get a group in there that will use it daily, working as intended.yawn, i'm right as usual. the predictability kinda gets boring really."
"since nullsec has used griefing as you call it in things like burn jita, that you now claim griefing is bad gaming would be hilarious if it werent so pathetic.yawn, i'm right as usual. the predictability kinda gets boring really."
"you forgot to address the point that you're largescale renters.here, i gave you anoher chance to do so."
"yeah, troll ceptors avoiding trollceptors while trollceptors avoid trollceptors and oops, it's over already! let's wait for the next vulnerability window.it's not fun, not for the attacker and not for the defender.i remember someone saying that trollceptors were not going to be a thing and here we are, trollceptoring the **** and will to log in out of each other :d"
"well...i want the command node number decreased and/or you want an automatic win on uncontested timers."
"if you ever participated in fozziesov ops you'd know that cepters used only for scouting..."
"give yourself chance to read whole post."
"then don't live in space you actually have to defend if you don't want to...defend it...there are places called low sec and high sec where you don't need to commit resources to defend space. moving to null should be a conscious choice to put in effort to defend space.how hard is it to orbit a node with an alt, and send out the call if someone shows up? or better, use it as a recruiting effort, using rookies as scouts/defenders.don't whine when mechanics change, get creative and adapt to it. that's what eve is about at the heart of it. just because this is disrupting the massively safe blue doughnut doesn't mean you shouldn't adapt."
"i have and they weren't =("
"omg, fozziesov is realy working. bring some mops for all these tears."
"to be honest, i'm kind of against this. it seems like it would get abused by certain pilots (those with too much cash or too much isk) to just remap whenever they wanted to. for example, going from navigation, to combat, to industry... etc, they would just remap instead of buying implants or really planning things out long term.the only way i'd be okay with this being implemented would be a cool down on purchased remaps, maybe 6 months? that way it couldn't be spammed just to maximize sp gain every single time you felt like training something different.edit: forgot to mention that this is actually a good suggestion, i could see it being implemented i just hope it's implemented in a way that it's not easy to abuse."
"no, non, nyet, nein, etc."
"i been tired, of late . . . i will work hardermmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"you've played this game since 2008 and yet you don't understand the fundamentals of the game.6/10 troll better next time."
"if a tower has been offline for 30+ days, give us the option to hack it and salvage it. so we would need both hacking and archeology, that would free up the pos for us to take as well as any modules etc. data / hacking to get into the computer system to release the anchors or make them vulnerable and use salvaging to undo them. let me clean up space while making a profit.....adds more sue to the skills as well. as a side note, i think hacking should be able to get into giant secured containers anchored in space as well. if you can hack it :)"
"shoot it."
"not empty quoting."
"did you really just suggest we stick new players in ships orbiting laser nodes?what the hell is wrong with you?do you actually want to keep new players in this game?"
"a lot of new players do this kind of thing on their own and a frightening number of them stick with it and end up bitter and annoyed with making iskies ^^"
"the problem is the numbers don't match your claims. goons rank 35th out of all sov holding alliances in terms of pilots/system. the top 10 are decent sized alliances many of us know who hold just a few systems (1-4) in ns like pandemic legion, nulli secunda, and nc.if you were to, you know, actually look at the data, you'd see that those alliances that have a high number of pilots/system seem to be weathering the initial phases of fozziesov reasonably well. those who do not post threadnaughts on the forums.edit: also, the cfc/imperium was one of the few coalitions to actually try and adapt fozziesov prior to fozziesov hitting the game. they dropped quite a bit of sov and reshuffled things around. the signatories of this petition on the other hand sat on their hands and did nothing."
"adapt or die...guess we know what will happen to the russians then."
"so you are claiming that the people attacking arent having fun, come on they wouldnt do it if they didnt.the person not having fun is the person being agressed but that is the case in about 99% of all combat in eve, so suck it up and either do or dont, your choice, word emphasized because that is what eve is about.yawn, i'm right as usual. the predictability kinda gets boring really."
"they'll be fine because the hordes from highsec only care to gun for us"
"i read this as: i want ccp to nerf legitimate fighting tactics because im grossly incompetent and cant kill anything moving faster than 1500m/s.did i get that right?yawn, i'm right as usual. the predictability kinda gets boring really."
"hi !im eve i guess we never met before, well things are going to be tough for you if you keep clinging to your current belief about how i intend to treat you !*punches you in the crotch*is it clearer now?yawn, i'm right as usual. the predictability kinda gets boring really."
"ccp has gone and pissed off the russians. they'll have only themselves to blame when they start receiving packages laced with rare radioactive isotopes."
"pretty much, although it does seem to me a few bits could use some polish. some parts that shouldn't be annoying are way too annoying. and other aspects are no where near annoying enough. troll ceptors are boring, troll devs are better"
"so what?no more free wodka at ccp office ?"
"can we hold the tears until phase three launches guys?founder of violet squadron, a small gang npsi community! mail me for more information."
"release the space you dont live in pure blind.dont and suffer the consequences coming to protect them.and stop whining for trying to protect space you dont live in.its your fault!"
"thats because you tend to just blob anything that comes to fight to hell and back calm down miner. as you pointed out, people think they can get away with stuff they would not in rl... like for example illegal mining... - ima wreckyou*"
"so yesterday someone tried to entosis a pl tcu in a 1x system.i was able to burn to the system in a inti get on grid to see it<U+FFFD>s a 4k/s vaga 200km off.. i burn at him and he burns away<U+FFFD> he then left and never came back. someone un-entisised the tcu and we went home.op success, that<U+FFFD>s how you defend in fozzie sov boys and girls."
"now if you could just repeat this 50-1000 times, and write the next post accurately describing the amount of fun you had doing this from op 35 onwards. i think we'd all be a bit more enlightened on why a system that seems to promote sovlasering structures without any conflict being necessary, or fights occurring possibly being a bit flawed.bonus points for alarmclocking for a chase or two, since most reinforces will usually be done at the worst possible timezone for you the second you let your indexes slip."
"or we could just let the guy entosis it and then never bother going to the system because the lone guy will never come back to do 2-3h of work on something in a system no one cares about all while us not loosing the benefit of the sov in the 1st place.yep yep i think we will do that.i was just pointing out its super easy to get to a system and stop some one entosising and if some one was actively ratting or mining in there it would be even easier. we also don't need to alarmclock for anything because we have a a fully active autz who are more than willing to log in and feed to people."
"this guys speaks the truth, there's a massive difference between scaring away one random etosis troll and trying to fend of a persistent group of them that keep on coming back at the worst times.we both know this because he's the troll and i am on the receiving end. its not fun, its extremely frustrating and again we get almost no fights. he has gotten a few good kills but considering everything i wouldn't say its worth doing for the occasional kill and getting kills because your enemies are falling asleep and be driven mad by all the rng timers and massively time consuming nodes is not good for the game in the long term."
"as corporation recruiter for mortum ravagers i have to say.lol nerds.. come to lowsec and fight like real men."
"your killboard says you have been fighting in null.... calm down miner. as you pointed out, people think they can get away with stuff they would not in rl... like for example illegal mining... - ima wreckyou*"
"yeah we roam there occasionally tbh, merlin roams ftw!"
"how unfortunate."
"they need to **** can fozzie, what fun is a game that you don't have to earn your accomplishments. so now for all of us that put the time and work into grinding standings, sov and training cap lvl ships turns out to be just a waste of time. sadly world of ships is more like eve was in the good old days before fozzie screwed it up!!!!"
"you've only yourself to blame for not using capital ships you've trained for. nobody forces you to stay docked."
"well...i want the command node number decreased and/or want an automatic win on uncontested timers."
"1). ccp obviously doesn't care. or they wouldn't have done it.2). i have no doubt they will not fix this.3). i've been watching all my favorite ships get nerfed into junk for 2 years now. complain and people call you names and tell you to adapt.i still like eve...but am well past the point of caring now if it simply dies off. i've gone from 9 accounts down to 2 all were paid for with cash. i laugh at the emails i get asking me to come back with these old accounts. 2 accounts are ok for me for now. maybe some day, things will go back the other way. i really hope so...."
"yes. yes i did. i did nothing but scout trading routes for a null alliance after two weeks from starting. the excitement of being part of something that massive was the only thing that kept me in the game.what would you rather them do? get 50 mil in thank you isk for doing that (a stupidly big amount for a week old player), while chatting with experienced vets learning about the game, or afk mine in a venture while watching netflix and end up quitting?have you played eve before?also, what's keeping you from having an alt orbit that node while alt-tabbed? i have two alts doing similar things 100% of the time i'm playing."
"more alliance leaders signed off on that petition those who sign it, and i expect more will sign it. thank you for your support."
"if people really care about what they are saying, is to easy to show them that they are wrong and the players dosent want:1 - this new sov2 - capital nerfs3 - ship rebalance all the time4 - skins and clothesfor that you can just simply make 2 things.1 - retreat to low sec and disconnect all the toons and dont pay the subscription or dont buy the plex.2 - create new toons for free until they give players what players want.its very simple indeed. with new toons you can always make some rookie pvp in low and get some fun.dont bother with the systems that you are lefting behind, you can always back there, whoever take sov there, cant hold the sov for too long or if they are atacked.i assume i will do it with you despite i<U+FFFD>m in hs and low if you all choose to do it."
"yes, the real \"protest,\" here would be throwing one's sov in the dumpster and doing something else until such time as ccp took notice, but you will observe that none of the whinging chaps here are interested in that. they've invested much time and effort into sov ala dominion, so i can't say that i blame them; however, nobody is going to take notice of the forum petition when nullsec looks almost identical to the empires that existed prior to it's rollout.also, \"i don't like it, because it's not fun,\" is a really ironic argument coming from coalitions of english and russian speakers who literally carved their empires out by making the game as unfun as possible for their enemies. that's always been a key factor in sov warfare and always will be. the only major difference now is who has the upper hand.i don't know what's more amusing here: the fact that the game's largest coalitions feel the need to bleet about how un-fun it is to retain control over vast swathes of space or the fact that not terribly many years ago those in control of said coalitions would have been thrilled at this chance to troll the **** out of their larger enemies."
"i don't generally fly in nullsec but it does still seem like the null-sec community are still bored ****less and are using a campaign of 'harassment' (note this is the ops description of the activity.) on the high sec freight routes. when this will end i have no idea. it doesn't personally affect me either but it does, like 'fozziesov', apparently **** off a lot of people as well. pot calling the kettle black is the shortened version of the above comment.there seems to be a fascination with increased ship speed as well for quite a while. some of the incursion communities have embraced this fully forsaking tank for vastly increased warp speed. the mind boggles......... . i get the lore implication in that we are heading to an end game where, probably alliances, in null-sec will be able to build there own jump gates to explore new regions of space. but it does seem like the speed thing has gone a little to far now.i remember a long time ago there were ideas thrown about to encourage more pilots to populate null-sec via systems with special environmental effects to give them a boost or some kind of protection from just having their skulls smashed against a brick wall. i'm not sure if the new system will enable this to happen or not ?"
"active pvp pilots per system report for those that signed this petitionhard alliance - 2.5brothers of tangra - 0.45synergy of steel - 5.5triumvirate. - 6.2solar fleet - 0.97dream fleet - 0.66soviet-union - 1.8infinity space. - 17advent of fate - 12.4legion of xxdeathxx - 2.6the afterlife. - 5.8shadow of xxdeathxx - 0.5gentlemen's.club - 3.4the blood covenant - 3.9razor - 10.5for comparison sake, gsf, by all accounts one of the most organized and efficient alliances in eve, has 14.5 (was 17 a few days ago, either they picked up sov or lost some active pvp pilots).infinity space. is a huge outlier here. a quick review suggests that they are closely tied to xxdeathxx and likely felt some pressure to add a number to the list for their masters.other than them, these numbers are pathetic, and it's no wonder you don't like the new system, it was designed for you.this is occupancy-based sov. occupy or let it fall."
"totally not empty quoting.nosir."
"there is a difference between when players make decisions (tactical and strategic) to try an bore their enemy to death vs. ccp making the gaming deathly boring...."
"i agree with the broad sentiments outlined by uaxdeath here."
"watching a sov structure melt under the combined firepower of a well-endowed super fleet is objectively less involved, by number of players sat at the keyboard doing something, than chasing troll ceptors. it's the slug matches that occur in between that we log in for. there's really no way to make provoking a sov. battle \"fun, \" because it's always going to be about setting up a timer and waiting for the actual fun bit later.this whole argument around how fun entosis jazz isn't does not hold water. the lack of fun comes from the unwillingness of players to fight and that doesn't come from their space being alight 23/7, it comes from the entrenched entitlement of bloc leadership who don't want people having fun, they just want to retain or expand their space holdings."
"i dont see the problem with what you call a \"troll ceptor\"i mean you cant fit a tech ii entosis on a ceptor. so this is out of the question.you can however fit a tech i into a ceptor. but ceptor can only entosis within 25km.so its really easy to deal what you call a \"troll ceptor\".1- you can damp them and they will have to start the process again from scratch. very easy.2- ecm them and they will have to start the process again from scratch. very easy.3- kill it. get a fast ship and scram. the end. easy.4- you can scram it with an arazu. the end. very easy.5- also it cannot warp so all it can do is try and out run you. get a fast ship and hunt it down. easy.this does not have to be as hard as quantum mechanics. dont over think it.or are you asking for it to be sitting still so that you can always kill it just like you would with a cheap cyno? if so, you are not suppose to be able to kill everything you happen to see. the target is suppose to have a chance of getting out."
"so, you are not utilizing the system and in fozziesov when you dont use a system it becomes difficult to hold.thank you for the eloquent definition of, \"working as intended\".yawn, i'm right as usual. the predictability kinda gets boring really."
"i think we need to see further balance changes.entities like moa still cant take sov and that makes me sad."
"are we sure that moa wants to take - and hold on to - sov? or are the mostly interested in punishing alliances still trying to use dominion sov tactics?"
"but an even bigger thank you goes out to those members of large corps and alliances from nullsec that came here and decried this hypcritical piece of trash for what it really is.they rest of eve appreciates that you stand by your core values even when game changes go against what is probably your best interests.yawn, i'm right as usual. the predictability kinda gets boring really."
"i see a lot complaining that entosis is not fun. and you dont get the \"big fights\".currently we are the only game in town in the north besides oss in venal.black legion is in fountain at the momment doing their thing. we will not fight battles vs 200 sub cap, + cap fleets + super + titans. you must have figger that out by now....so if cfc really wants to get all their big slug fest with supers and titans all that, then why dont you go and attack black legion in fountain? what are you waiting for? you can grind all structures that you want and pos's. maybe even reset some of your allies/blues to neutral?or even better why dont you deploy and attack fountain? deploy to fountain, put a few poses log supers and titans and get your butts there. hell camp their station like you guys do to us. why is this not happening?the cfc has over 50000 people in their coalition. surelly you can do that? can you?"
"it's delicious to read that people who can't handle a few frigs wanna a rollback to get more fight and in the mean time, we all know that the previous system equal 1 or 2 tidi fights per year. some people have a seriously broken logic."
"in all fairness when i lived in sov null it was tidi nearly every night calm down miner. as you pointed out, people think they can get away with stuff they would not in rl... like for example illegal mining... - ima wreckyou*"
"yeah man tidi is terrible. and you are lucky if you are the first to load grid. if not then, you are going to lose probably badly. half your fleet will be dead before you know what happened."
"+1let's take time to remember this gem as well."
"frustrating people you dont want in an area is a speciality of a certain group of players that have been doing it for more than a decade and laughing at the people they frustrate. since im not one for naming names, illl just call them by a code word: sovholders.since this same group will repeat this nuisance behavior repeatedly even when they know no large scale battle will ever come from frustrating a lone explorer in a frigate i will use your term and call them 'trolls' and while im at it since that explorer will meet this same problem from this same group no matter how many times he returns to exploring in his frigate i will also call for ccp to make game mechanic changes so that that explorer can explore nulllsec without further trolling from, 'sovholders'.i know that given how clearly your 'collective' has stated that fighting frigates is something sov holders should not be doing in nullsec i fully expect to see your entire collective sign my petition to end this type of fighting.thank you in advance for your support !!!yawn, i'm right as usual. the predictability kinda gets boring really."
"i imagine that the problem has less to do with it requiring occupancy, and more to do with it requiring massive amounts of structure lasering to fend off people who have no interest in taking the space anyway, but can contest it with relative ease. fozziesov is boring as sin. that's the problem with it."
"assuming \"occupancy\" is there, i don't see how massive amounts of structure lasering would ever happen? within the 15 to 60 minutes required for a t1 entosis to capture anything, undock a vni or caracal, maybe warp to the tcu or ihub, chase away or kill the interceptor, and you're done.if your system is empty and you cannot get anybody to it in time to prevent the capture that results in reinforcement followed by command node spawning, then you're missing the \"occupancy\" part.the system doesn't require occupancy, but it punishes lack of occupancy be inflicting whack-a-mole. it's up to your alliance's judgment to determine how they want to handle it."
"there is nothing in the old sov or the new that keeps you from busting out your big ships and blasting your neighbor. in fact only one word has ever stood between quite boring nullsec and total space carnage and that word is choice. since game mechanics new or old cannot force you occupants of nullsec to fight and becauae you chose and still apparently still choose to not fight the only problem standing between you and large scale engagements is your own decision not to.yawn, i'm right as usual. the predictability kinda gets boring really."
"it's all that chasing though isn't it? all sorts of points to be captured all over and you're chasing around disposable ships that the enemy don't care about. and all it takes is one of those many points to slip though while you're chasing frigates about for command nodes to be spawning.the whole idea of sov is it was supposed to promote actual conflict. it has failed to do that."
"on the 7 accounts you closed.....can i haz your stuffs ?i like to use phrases nullsec is familiar with so im sure we are clearly communicating.yawn, i'm right as usual. the predictability kinda gets boring really."
"so in a post that goes into detail how you are fighting throughout your sov to maintain your sov holdings you conclude that no conflict is occurring?to you i introduce the term, \"non sequitor\" or as it is sometimes referred to as, \"it does not follow\". meaning your statements of fact dont support your conclusion and in fact in this case your facts actually refute your own conclusion which is even worse.yawn, i'm right as usual. the predictability kinda gets boring really."
"wow don't people get it yet ? you're not supposed to be able to keep half off null sec with small / renter alliances. the whole point of the sov update was to stop alliances from claiming much more space than a) they need and b) they are able to protect.this is just another cry for nullbear easymode status."
"it currently promote conflict. just not conflict with explosions. we are continuously fighting over those systems to take/hold them. people's chase for the most efficient way of doing it is what cause trollceptor to be what we see so often. fight denial was used in eve since forever. being irritated that it get used in a new way under a new system is just plain stupid."
"oh my! i just realized i was gravely mistaken about something - i had been thinking that it was moa who reinforced a big chunk of bl's fountain, but now i know that it was actually your own alliance, sma. were you part of that op? what did you think of it? i've read you guys lost 40 interceptors in the effort. did you kill anything? what do you plan on doing with the nodes once they spawn?the last game of sov updates \" rabbits in the headlights \" + bonus update"
"why would moa be entosising bl anywayeveryone knows massadeath only gets it on for the imperium"
"so it seems some organizations are having issues realizing what \"occupancy\" based sov really means.hint: if you are finding it too hard to defend your currently claimed systems, you should consider recalculating what systems you want to hold.having a beautiful sov map isn't everything. (yes, the sov map has influenced what some want to claim)"
"i think what you and i define as \"fighting\" are disturbingly different. chasing disposable ships around is not a fight.since you're determined to avoid the point (or too simple to see it), i'll put it in the most basic language i can:i want to see ships of at least moderate value on both sides going boom. i want to see people trying to take sov, not just slapping a timer then running away to waste the defenders time. the system as it stands does nothing to promote these things."
"how is it? we're not losing space. it's easymode as it is, it's just boring as sin. nearly nobody wants to take the space and nobody that does wants to commit the resources to taking the space. because you can just throw a handful of disposable ships around and watch the defenders running around defending, that's all that gets done. once the novelty wears off, even that will become boring and there will be even less conflict in null. excuse me for thinking the idea of this change was to make people actually fight each other. i guess it was really because people love chasing cheap ships designed not to be caught. that's why the acu is soaring, right?it used to be mixed in with actually fights. of course people will run from fights they won't win, but fights use to occur. now an all out battle is like ooh, 2b killed. the vast majority of people contesting the sov don't even have interest in actually taking it. sorry mate, but going from 4k player battles to this crazy \"whack a mole with disposable ships\" is not an improvement.watching all these \"grr goons\" types crawling out of the woodwork fapping and saying \"yeah ccp make null more boring\" is quite hilarious though, so i guess there's that."
"op makes sense, for ccp to not have thought and done something about those problems shows that ccp disregards it's sov-base players.fozzie sov, the way it is now, basically say's 'go troll sov space'. in no regards does it invite small or large scale wars for sov space, but hit & run tactics which is flooding the game ever since interceptors became the most op ships in the game.it's a big **** you to sov owners."
"there is no mandatory chasing involved. structures don't move.if there are command nodes, then you already screwed-up by not preventing reinforcement.entosis links are far better for getting fights than sbus."
"why would you do that if you want fights?on the other hand, if you do not want to fight, what difference do the sov mechanics make?make space glamorous! is eve dying or not? ask the eve-o death-o-meter!"
"everybody wants that. but new groups were not able to move into dominion sov and take anything due to the mechanics that allowed for passive in absentia defense via huge hp numbers. what the aegis sov system is designed to do is give more groups room to expand into null and take that sov. it does this by deliberately making it a complete pain in the ass for anybody to defend a system displaced from where they spend their time, in the hopes that they stop trying to defend it, making it available for somebody else to live in it. wasting your time defending a system you don't have anybody in is a deliberate aspect of making you consolidate into space you actually use, making your unused space available to be taken by somebody else.we are less than three weeks into aegis. some people are just having fun with it by trolling. others are having trouble adjusting. it will take some time for the borders and tactics of alliances to adjust to what their pain threshold can withstand for defending. yes, it is possible for an alliance to play whack-a-mole and rush around chasing interceptors and keep a tentative grasp on their dominion sov. that is hindering the movement of new groups into sov null. it will take time for groups historically shut out of sov to make their way in. hopefully some are looking at the map and planning just that, and will be able to once some of the established alliances realize they need to let go of some of their systems due to the pain of holding them."
"except there is, since little entosis ships pop up all over the place and are designed to be as evasive as possible, because they are designed to not fight. i'm all for the system for people to more easily contest sov, but they have to actually commit to it to doing so. the idea this was pitched as was \"help smaller groups get into sov\", not \"make sov holders chase frigates\".and so far that's proving to be wrong. entosis links are getting tiny little skirmishes from time to time while sbus used to get big fights quite frequently.that's my point, they don't want fights. they want to contest sov and run away, knowing that the defenders have to run around unlasering everything. it's the space equivalent of going to somebodies early organise game shelf and swapping all the dics over and scattering them around the room then running away with your pants on your head. you've achieved nothing except the knowledge that the owner of the game collection has to put them all back. as a gameplay mechanic it sucks."
"but that's not what's happening, is it? people are just running around firing entosis lasers at absolutely everything they can, whether defenders are using the space or not, an the defenders have to run around wasting their time undoing that. the people contesting sov have absolutely no intention of taking it.i have to ask, have you actually played with the new mechanic? because it sounds like you haven't really used it. it's boring. insanely boring. it's much simpler to just go blow up noobs in niarja since at least there you get to see something explode. to be honest, the idea was flawed from the getgo. they effectively took structure bashing which nobody liked then thought \"wouldn't this be better if it was like mining\". turns out it's not better, surprise surprise. considering the csm have sat up pretty sharply, i'm hoping ccp have realised that from the incredibly lack of player surge following the release."
"ah yes, this unlasering part seems a bit strange to me. are the defenders forced to do it? or would the structures de-entosis themselves anyway after a certain period of time?if the attackers were chased off and don't come back in a reasonable period of time (1 hour?), seems to me that the attack was clearly unsuccesful and the mop-up is just a boring chore indeed...make space glamorous! is eve dying or not? ask the eve-o death-o-meter!"
"the stated goals are:ccp fozzie wrote:goal #1: as much as possible, ensure that the process of fighting over a star system is enjoyable and fascinating for all the players involvedgoal #2: clarify the process of taking, holding and fighting over star systemsgoal #3: minimize the systemic pressure to bring more people or larger ships than would be required to simply defeat your enemies on the field of battle.goal #4: drastically reduce the time and effort required to conquer undefended space.goal #5: provide significant strategic benefits from living in your space.goal #6: spread the largest sovereignty battles over multiple star systems to take advantage of new eden<U+FFFD>s varied geography and to better manage server load.goal #7: any new sovereignty system should be adaptable enough to be rapidly updated and to incorporate future changes to eve.you could argue goal #1, but it seems to me at least that you have chosen to be on the defensive rather than the offensive, and possibly not properly defend."
"aegis sov isn't meant to allow smaller groups get into sov by fighting the big groups for systems - aegis sov is meant to allow smaller groups to get into sov by causing larger groups to stop trying to defend those systems in the first place. then once done, different groups move into sov null (attracted, hopefully, by the anom changes) and there will be more inter-alliance conflict. we're at the very beginning of the first phase of sov null movement. this is not end-game sov state. if you have to run around your sov to protect it, you're doing it wrong. the game owner should be holding their discs in their hands at all times, not allowing the pants-on-head kid anywhere near them. if your reach is too short to hold on to your discs, you need to evaluate which discs are truly important."
"goal #1: as much as possible, ensure that the process of fighting over a star system is enjoyable and fascinating for all the players involvednope, not seeing any of this.goal #2: clarify the process of taking, holding and fighting over star systemsi guess, yes, it's simple enough to understand, so yeah, well done.goal #3: minimize the systemic pressure to bring more people or larger ships than would be required to simply defeat your enemies on the field of battle.number + organisation will always win and it's probably a good thing.goal #4: drastically reduce the time and effort required to conquer undefended space.i don't know, it take more or less the same amount of time, requires a lot fewer people to initiate and is still just as boring as shooting 40m hp structures.goal #5: provide significant strategic benefits from living in your space.longer timers are a significant strategic benefit, i assume.goal #6: spread the largest sovereignty battles over multiple star systems to take advantage of new eden<U+FFFD>s varied geography and to better manage server load.it's not working but that isn't the fault of the system. players and organisations are just painfully slow at figuring that out effective ways to effectively sovlaser while everyone else is dicking around in trollceptors.goal #7: any new sovereignty system should be adaptable enough to be rapidly updated and to incorporate future changes to eve.whatever."
"1. it's not enjoyable2. the system is more obscure than the last one, and most info isn't readily available in game.3. by \"more people\" they mean \"more than one\" and by \"larger ships\" they mean \"anything bigger than a frigate\". might have gone too far there. if people do choose to bring more ships, you're still sol if you don't bring more.4. that was successful5. that's yet to be seen, since the timer is still short enough that you have to drop everything you are doing to rush over and shoot troll ships whenever they turn up. i guess the main issue here is that nothing makes the attackers have to actually commit more to attacking.6. again, this one is sort of done, but it's only because there are no large sov battles. why that's considered a good thing, i have no idea. maybe international press wasn't something ccp enjoyed.7. any system can be tweaked over time, even the old sov system."
"the small groups don;t want the sov. they've made that painfully clear by not bothering to show up for timers. and even if by some miracle a big group gets bored of defending and gives up the system, the new guys still can;t move in because the big group will just show up and repeatedly gank them until they stop trying to live there.yeah, must be doing it wrong. i forgot that to hold sov we're supposed to stand guard on the tcu and ihub and station constantly in every single system we own so that if someone shows up we don't have to switch ships and fly around after them.i have a feeling you don't know what games are for. they are not career choices. the idea that an attacker should be able to just show up in a cheap disposable ship and start lasering while a defender needs to constantly stand guard is moronic. i don't care if it ends up that we can only hold half the space we do, but defending shouldn't be more of a chore than attacking, shouldn't require more committed resources than attacking, and both sides of the mechanic should be entertaining and promote meaningful conflict."
"while a lot of people will say that there is already a solution for what you see as a \"problem\" the other side of the coin is that ccp do like conflict drivers.however, this whole thing has been discussed at length before and there is a problem with the hacking idea.if you could hack an offline tower the game mechanics would have to decide what to do with a tower after a successful hack. the obvious choice is to unanchor it so it could be scooped. then you would probably see lots of afk inties orbiting towers, tower market gets saturated, people end up just reprocessing towers and that would have an effect on minerals as well as towers.assuming that ccp decided this was a problem, or a potential conflict driver, i would prefer one of the other proposed solutions. which is to degrade the shields over a period of time, say 1% per day, for example, which would drop the shields to zero after 100 days and make pos bashing a bit less time consuming or more open to the general public."
"lots of tears means all is well in eve universe."
"1 - not really, nobody are fighting for star systems, they<U+FFFD>re just trolling star systems, nobody cares about null sec anymore unless for trolling, so this point is a big fail.2 - as stated and ccp can see that, theres no new alliances contesting systems, just some alliances that are already in null sec are spreading a create new alliances, so nothing changes, hs people are not going there once again, so we have another big fail.3 - well this one is a go, not much people fighting neither big ships, thats the way to an very nice empty null space.4 - conquer what? i dont see any conquered space, just new alliances coming from old ones, they stay where they are.5 - strategic benefits? what strategic benefits? being disrupted is a benefit? maybe they are talking about from ihub and upgrades sales, that is benefit for those who are manufacturing it in hs.6 - sov battles? i havent see any since this new sov mechanics, just troll, nothin more but trolling.7 - well maybe the future changes are bots and more bots providing by ccp due the lack of null sec players and players in game, they are decreasing intead of increasing.players who have left are not turning back until they have what they want and part of them are not going back anymore, they are felling defrauded by ccp so i cant blame them since the last 4 years we get all in one way or another being defrauded due the systemic nerfs, changes on the way we play the game and ccp words are adpat. so for at least 20.000 palyers they have adapted themselves once and for all, they leave the game and i belive much more will leave the game soon enough. new players dont count on that, when they reach the game, they leave in a week or two, too complex, too many changes all the time, scaming and harassment to new players who dosent know what to do, so their best way is to move to another game without all of this..."
"can i have your stuff?"
"let me assure you the simpleton is on your side the this issue. when someone makes a poor decision and pays a price and whines to ccp that some change needs to be made, you nullsec types tell them that, 'decisions in eve have consequences\" and that they should stop whining to ccp for changes when they only have themselves to blame.let me state that i agree with this statement, it is absolutely the right one to hold for this game.now we come to the part where apparently you are a bit thick-headed.you (nullsec) chose non-aggression pacts, you chose not to fight your neighbors, you knew that your choice was counter to the very fundamentals upon which this game stands.you made bad choices, now deal with the unpleasant consequences and stop whining to ccp !yawn, i'm right as usual. the predictability kinda gets boring really."
"keep in mind that currently, they can't have sov. regardless of how painful to the established alliances the tactics are, they nevertheless are effective tactics. small groups get denied sov, get kicked out of sov, because of groups operating under the dominion paradigm of keeping everything they can capture. indeed, larger groups can harass and evict smaller groups. just like groups can get evicted out of wormholes. just like groon or bos or noc could hellcamp cas and if not in reality at least in effect erase us from syndicate. and yet meaningful and exciting and significant conflict happen in wormholes and npc null. well, yes! that's exactly it! you're starting to see! that's the very definition of occupancy sov. i think you still have the cause and effect backwards, however. you don't live in a system because you want to defend it - you defend a system because you want to live in it. defending a system you live in from a trollceptor is not a chore and does not require committing significant resources."
"destroying the will of an enemy to fight is a core combat technique even in the real world, certainly it has applications in a video game.yawn, i'm right as usual. the predictability kinda gets boring really."
"concerning ccp fozzies goals for the new mechanics.1. you could consolidate your holdings to places you occupy and use thus reducing your exposure to being entossed, you could entoss your neighbor alliances, you could show up when said entossed alliance must defend its space giving you the big fight you claim to want. this would be using fozziesov rather than whining about it. in short, you are not having fun because you are chosing not to, not because the game mechanics are wrong, only your approach to them is wrong and your approach is now outdated.2-7 working as intended....yawn, i'm right as usual. the predictability kinda gets boring really."
"ok lets get this part straight. you think that in a game called eve online, people are going to somehow eventually get tired of trolling.......are you new here?"
"where did i say trolling would stop? note that i only mentioned changes on the sov holder's part. i think - no, i hope - that the people being trolled will figure out how to deal with it easily. but maybe salty posts by sov holders getting trolled will become as common as salty posts by haulers getting ganked. -shrug-"
"waking up every morning and having to clean up the mess made while you were asleep is boring. yay now you have to stand guard to prevent someone making a mess, who doesn't even want your sov. hey a solution that is even more boring than watching pant dry. no fun allowed, you got guard duty for x hours. exciting gameplay there i tell you what. this is supposed to be a god damned game, not a second job, but hey, i guess ccp is taking eve is real to a whole new level.\"it's only because of their stupidity that they're able to be so sure of themselves.\" the trial - franz kafka"
"i'm giving 7-to-1 odds that lucas wears you all out...he is a tireless poster and is worse than the energizer bunny.you have been warned. i haven't checked, but i bet he is still posting in the thread about broadcating/multiplexing...even if nobody else is. hah, i was right although he is not the only one still posting to that thread."
"if your alliance is asleep during your vulnerability period, whomever chose that period is stupid.ccp fozzie wrote:a system with military and industrial each at 1 would already have shrunk its vulnerability window all the way to 8.18 hours. a system with military 5 and strategic 5 (quite common) would have a vulnerability window of 4 hours.so for 4 hours a day you are incapable of having at least one person per structure in system to stop capture? no need for guard-duty, just home-defense by whomever is ...err... home.miners, ratters, or alts... it doesn't take much. oh, and you have 50 minutes to respond at adm 5."
"to be fair, goonswarm is a big<U+FFFD> alliance, so it it is almost surely the case that for many in the alliance that they are asleep when the systems are vulnerable."
"jenn only reads what she thinks you said then decides to go all superior on it, gives me hours of fun when i am afk cloaky camped, especially when she throws in just how good at pve she is, just you wait, you will get that soon if you continue to post, she has her pve eye on you... you quite rightly pointed out that people would either sort themselves out to deal with it or decide to walk away, and the trolls would have to up their game.on another note i am still laughing at the people complaining about trolling interceptors, they are so easy to stop its laughable, its the arazu's and loki's with oversized mwd's and 250 km locking range that are the real troll ships at least on sov that has no tender loving care, which as far as i am concerned is working as intended. blocked: teckos pech, sonya corvinus, baltec1, shae tadaruwa, wander prian, daichi yamato, jonah gravenstein, merin ryskin, linus gorp"
"im fine with people bringing lokis and arazus because at least its the opportunity to kill something a bit more expensive if done correctly."
"\"grr nullsec\"working with others is not \"counter to the very fundamentals upon which this game stands\" and no matter what gets done, that's always going to exist. being in a bigger, better organised group will always have an advantage. the idea of fozziesov was to compact the space us big groups took while encouraging people to take sov. what it's done instead is just encourage people to troll wit disposable ships to waste defenders time.what's happening to this game has nothing to do with choices we've made. it's to do with ccp being unable to develop an entertaining system for dealing with system ownership and asshats like you cheering them on making the game as boring as possible out of some hatred for groups who work well together."
"yes they can. there's loads of places going spare at the moment. what they can't do is expect to snatch up sov on the border of one of the biggest coalitions and hold it without a fight. what they want is some system where a 100 man alliance can hold their space against a 30k member coalition without having to put in substantial effort. no matter what (reasonable) system they put in place that's never going to happen in a sandbox game. don't get me wrong though, the systems as it stands encourages trolling over real attempts to take sov.and yet it doesn't happen in sov null, because the system actively discourages meaningful conflict. thanks for proving the point that it's the mechanics, not the players.lol no it's not. the purpose of occupancy sov is for people to live in their space, not stand idly in their space at all times just in case people come to get it. games are for entertainment an the current system does nothing to promote that. having to constantly reship and run around chasing cheap ships designed to be uncatchable is not entertaining. seriously, i think you need to actually try the system out so you understand the level of boring involved in actively guarding sov.see, you keep underselling it. if the problem was defending one system from one trollceptor, then yeah, there'd be no problem. the problem with disposable ships is that what you end up defending against is constant trollceptors. just look at the timerboards for how many timers are going. those are just the ones that slipped through, and i guarantee that only a tiny minority are from people actually interested in taking space."
"destroying the will of people to actually play the game isn't such a good idea in a video game though. that's why people like you encouraging ccp to make eve as boring as possible are doing it a disservice.i'm a goddamn hero is what i am."
"as a leader of ruca emperor alliance i am agree, i sign this petition!"
"the entire alliance is asleep? really? you are gonna go with that argument?if so, again that would also be an example of setting a stupid vulnerability window."
"if i was in an alliance that was interested in taking space, i would attack multiple systems to mask my real target, i would also use this to break the will to defend. the troll interceptors are easy to kill however i can understand that being a chore if its against people who are just doing it to cause hassle. i am looking forward to the first major imperium campaign, should be amusing to see just how many people flood into imperium space for pay back time.but i get your point about eve being a game where the main strategy is to bore your enemy out of the game, afk cloaky camping is one such strategy used to move towards eve's extinction. blocked: teckos pech, sonya corvinus, baltec1, shae tadaruwa, wander prian, daichi yamato, jonah gravenstein, merin ryskin, linus gorp"
"in the real world, people also actuallydie. destroying your opponent's morale is effective, but it is not particularly fun for either side. eve is supposed to be a game. games are supposed to be fun.believe me, i lived through years of dominion sov. i do not want it back. it was not a good system. i feel qualified to say that having ground hundreds of structures in stealth bomber fleets in order to deny an enemy a fight. that is why dominion sov was terrible. replacing dominion sov with an equivalent system is just bone-headed.are we noticing a pattern here?"
"perhaps you need to familiarize yourself with the definition of many. if i had meant the entire alliance, i'd have written, \"the entire alliance\". the person you were responding too noted they often have to go and deal with the mess made while he was asleep...not that the entire alliance was asleep.reading...its fundamental."
"isn't there a rule against multi posting? i thought there was."
"why i never would have thought of that possibility at all!you sir are a tactician without peer. sun tzu, clausewitz, and dracvlad."
"yes, this is correct. i suppose this is why no timers appear in territories occupied by really big and organized groups.if some groups could not directly contest others for sov during dominion, they won't be able now, and that wasn't going to change. assuming that they want that sov, i suppose their goal is not to entertain people currently having their flag there, quite the opposite. you've said that one of the goals was to compact existing holders, and \"sov trolling\" is the best average can do to make it happen, do it until another guy says \"no, f*** you and your strategic value, i'm not unwanding this s**t system we don't have anything in anyway\". that's how you \"compact\" existing groups.or a holder can go painless route, pack up and move to nice system you are going to fully upgrade, and max indexes there, while knowing that maybe another \"hub zero #whatever\" comes to your former system so you could actually extract some content as opposed to only seeing entosis frigs. does it make sense from \"srs business\" perspective? hell no. but here we come to the main part:sandbox or ccp-designed systems being the source of entertainmant, pick one. what i mean is...one and almost the only thing going for eve is that resources for individuals are hard to come by by video game standards and nobody wants to lose them, making it feel like conflict matters. it's core design that you pay for your fun here with hours of soul sucking (again, by vg standards) \"work\". you can't have it both \"fun\" and \"meaningful and engaging\" - anything being fun to acquire means a lot of people will do that, making this resource in question worthless.right now though, in a sense, you must choose to do stupid things here in order for fun to happen. npsi fleets are utterly pointless and are waste of resources... or they would be if not for the fact that they are supposed to bring action and nothing more. same goes for every roam ever, it's losing ships for no gain - except to have a good time.it's time to understand that same will eventually be applied to such assets as extra territories. i say \"extra\" because people still want their base of operation, something to rely on when they want to make some \"isk\" in any form and use them to make fun happen again. and then there are people like manufacturers, miners and other groups that rely on stable places to have their gameplay and fun at all.everything beyond that is a welp for giggles material.i think his point is that if those groups were working well together on generating conflict, ccp wouldn't be so pressed to screw around with sov null. but that doesn't fall under normal, \"srs business\" definition of \"working well together\" ofc.what happened to whs is a good illustration. when wormholers were killing and evicting each other, ccp wasn't doing anything. when high-class community entrenched themselves and started to only care about occasional semi-staged (if \"semi\") fights and dunking nullsec ratters out of boredom, nerfs and tweaks started to happen (such as: hole rolling nerf, c4 connectivity fix, so-called \"sort dragon nerf\")."
"and what was the rest of alliance doing if they have to mop up after them? i suppose that sleeping describes that fairly well, if not in a literal sense."
"yeah, there's a sort of minimum needed to hold sov.but one person can make a corp, make an alliance, get some intercceptors (or such, take your pick) and sov lasers and go troll them some sov in them there hills (hells)if you're small, know where to aim, stick to trolling those big enough to hold sov. remember, unclaimed is your victory cry!!"
"well if its one person then its very easy to deal with them. after all you got 50000 poeple in your coalition.or are you trying to tell me you cant fend off a small gang? or you dont want to? if you dont want to then that means you probably dont really want to bother to jump far away where your alliance dont live. why defend a system you dont live in? i wouldnt too."
"it's not that it's hard to deal with them, it's that it's boring as sin. this is why people aren't rushing back to play with the sov system, because it's ****. what should have been a reason for mass resubs has just reaffirmed why a lot of people left in the first place."
"no its just blindingly obvious, its also obvious that the imperium has a counter set up for it too, my comment was more aimed in an amused way at the numbers who decide to try it, but if you want to make a very lame fuss out of it, with a fail sarcastic comment that in effect made you look foolish, feel free, but you need to improve your reading comprehension skill a bit mate because that sentence was more focussed on the numbers that will come in when you lot are on campaign as compared to the numbers now which some of the lessor imperium members are complaining about. blocked: teckos pech, sonya corvinus, baltec1, shae tadaruwa, wander prian, daichi yamato, jonah gravenstein, merin ryskin, linus gorp"
"ok so if its boring for you (defenetly not for me), then why defend it? why defend a system you are not interested in? to alot of other people getting blobbed is not exactly fun. i know you guys like it but some others dont and you can not have always your way.or even better, why not wait for it to get reinforced and deal with it when it comes out of reinforcement. i mean if there is going to be a battle there will be just like in previous sov...you have to concider. atm we are the only game in town in the north besides oos. so its not like you are going to get a super or capital fight from us =). we will deny you the good fight as much as you guys also deny us the good fights."
"'out to ruin your game'' ..."
"massadeath told us this time would be different and the evil empire would fall"
"but you're not finding the mechanics fun, you're finding it fun because you can use disposable ships to troll huge alliances with ease. you can't tell me that you enjoy firing what is effectively a mining laser at a structure.and we defend if because we want the space, so we're forced to take part in terrible mechanics to maintain what we have. the idea of this change was to create conflict, but it's not doing that. the thing is, you guys have been ctad to this thread by your leadership to support bad mechanics purely because they get kicks out of watching goons have to repeatedly respond to sov trolling. we all know the mechanics are bad, but your leadership is happy to watch ccp develop bad mechanics because of their \"grr goons\" mentality."
"mechanics itself isn't going to be fun, that would imply some sort of pve minigame or something, i dunno. it's all about sorting out who will get to use it at all, this is where it should be anyway.i mean, flag carrying in ut is literally just touching two points on the map consequently, but who cares, it's about shooting players, right? grr \"grr goons mentality\" much?"
"one could say similar things about what happens whenever we go to war~"
"when i am entosing, to me its exactly the same.the laser effect may look similar to mining but i dont look at it this way. i look at it as if i am shooting lasers at it cos the effect in the end is exactly the same. i reinforce it and the structure does blow up in the end exactly as before. thats the truth.the why we use small ships its easy. we cannot afford it and why should we when we get blobbed every time ;)ok so you want to keep space that you dont live in. fair enough. well suffer the consequences. the new expansion is suppose to help smaller entities take space or at least rattle the current space and disrupting a bit the blue balling in eve.we are creating conflict. otherwise you will not be complaining in here!actually it was me who told our leaders that about the new threads. it was me that initiated the post. i do what i want to do. if i dont like it, i leave. nobody tell me what to do.leaders dont have to tell me anything. i like this out of my choice nothign to do with leaders. i always wanted to poke at cfc and always wished for a day gorrilla warfare will be a valid game in eve. well its finally here and i just cant get enough."
"guerrilla warfare always has been viable. the problem is that gen and massa aren't exactly on par with wheniaminspace and ammzi in the tactics department."
"there is also the problem of currently defending space with relatively low usage case. i know there are plans for pb but currently, it's a shitshow mostly because anyone can freely entosis there. i don't recall any systems where people actually live getting trolled yet. i'm not sure about our allies' space but i'd guess they get the same stuff. the space they are active in never get reinforced because it's easy to prevent and any system where there isn't ever anyone doing anything are the systems trolls keep reinforcing because it's easy.holding space because you want that space just won't work long term. people's will is bound tu burn down from defending the same system over and over again. the space you need on the other hand won't get trolled because nobody will be able to troll entosis a system where you have some ratters in around the clock as long as those ratters put in the :effort: to prevent reinforcements."
"well entosis is not the whole package. entosis give a real capability for herassment. the realisty is that guerilla warfare before was only about spies, stealing, gate camps and cyno jumping someone. paying off people, treason etc. but it lacked the serious ability to engage where it hurts and disapear into the forest quickly. now this is viable. the most important thing about this that this is only realy feasible in systems you dont live cos you cant really entosis a system where you live it unless you bring everything. so yes, its refreshing and very fun to do this."
"moving this to the assembly hallccp falcon || eve universe community manager || @ccp_falcon"
"if you need it, you live in it! if you want it you live in it! you dont live in it in either case.easy solution. you dont want it entosied, start living in it. you dont live in it, it will get entosied."
"fozzie sov is great! the big complaint i see is that these big alliances cant hold what they have because they have overreached and have more space than they should. if your 1000+ member alliance cant hold off a small gang then you have two choices, get more members to actually fill the space you have or reduce the sovereignty that you hold so your current numbers can defend it. stop crying to ccp because you actually have to work to keep what you have."
"see! it's easy! you want to maintain your easy gameplay.no. if we don't live in it, it should be easy. the problem is that even space people are living in is easy and requires no real commitment. i'd be happy to see active systems need battleship links and inactive systems need rookie ships.lol, bull. you're pretty much echoing gen eve, just with slightly better grammar."
"sure you cant, that<U+FFFD>s why its my stuff, better to burn them if i leave then give it to someone else, you want stuff? work as i did.backing to the point of this thread, even if there are half of null sec to claim sov, people arent going there to claim it, theres too many people (like me i assume that) that dosent want to be in huge or bigger corps they prefer small corps. ccp are trying to force hs people to go into null to big or huge corps, thats not going to happen never, that people dont want big corps and specially pvp 23/7, they want to do what they want and what they like, not what others want them to do.then and again the lack of mobility to move their stuff into null are not helping at all, if ccp thinks that they are gonna sell their stuff to buy new ones in null, forget, thats not going to happen, maybe a few dozens do it, but thats all.in dominion people are going on null just because they have mobility, they enjoy for some safety and everybody has what are looking for, i assume that shooting structures for hours is not fun too, however that provides pvp if the intention are to defend that particular system. now with the all power in only one side, of course, nobody shows up to defend anything, they just dont care, they loose it defend it or not, you can call them chickens, i call them smarts.the real problem in this game are the tremendous power in just one side vs the all other sides, its not proportional, that is the main problem that ccp must look into first before develop something that can punish once again the same guys. but i guess why they dont look into that way, its no convenient..."
"what system with people living into it got reinforced? what were the index on it when it got reinforced and why did nobody manage to just prevent the reinforce in the first place?"
"dont quote me out of context. context is as important as the point. when i said \"its easy\", i dont meant its literally easy, otherwise we already own half of cfc space. what i meant its easy to decide why we use corm fleet and not carriers. you would be stupid to do so. after all you guys have a habit of droping supers and titans on top of us all the time. i am sure if the tables were turned you would not drop a carrier vs troll titans and supers ;).i think you personally just destoyer your chances here. so you want null sec space without needed to be protected/easy? wow.really? do you know that null sec space is suppose to be unsafe right? besides all the systems that are getting entosied, you dont live in it!lol no, i am not gen. i am well know for how i speak in ts. thats me. take it or leave it. i tell you the way it is and thats it.i wont bs you around unless i am trolling you ofcource. i also like a good joke and a laugh. is there anything else you want to know about me? or are you done with the personal attacks?"
"people moved to dominion cos of isk. sites used to give double the isk or more. people had more alts. it really rewarded having many alts. things got so bad the hisec wardeckers were complaining they did not have no one to war dec . i remember laughing at that. then it got nerfed and went down after that. also the new limitations on multi boxing software has reduced this also.the sites got nerfed big since then. the isk per hour has dropped to half since then."
"so? whats the point? are multiboxing bad? it means more accounts on game which is more incoming money to ccp and you are saying that is bad?if people are making money in null sec, it means that they are working to do so, or are you talking about bots?bots are used in null sec first and almost of the players that have complain about that have used them, personally i never used them, but if you have big rich alliances, better to start thinking what they have done before for they have all that money.you have guys in game that uses multiboxing for pvp, are that bad? not for me, if they have a pc that can runs all the accounts, why not? its their ships and its their problem.wardecs always have, if that mechanics are good, i dont think so, to me tha small the corp is, bigger the payment should be.if one part dosent desire to pvp, theres no point to wardec them, they can always bypass the system and not fight, wardecs should be made to those who desire to engage in combat and never to those who never engages in combat, its very simple.but people tend to force others to do what they dont desire to do, then here comes the complains about they not fight etc etc, its like in real life, some fight, others makes the logistics, others manufacture weapeons food etc, and the big guys (the money guys or the parasites if you prefer) dont do any ****, just sit on they chair making enemies and friends for its convenience and profit with the work and effort of everybody else.i will never shipping on that, i like small corps, small roams and a place where i can call home, if its hs, low sec, null sec or wh its not relevant, for now null sec to me its not worth, i dont care about get sov and hold it, i dont want cta<U+FFFD>s all the time, i dont want everyday to be 4 or more hours sit on my system waiting for the timers end or chasing ceptors preventing my ihub to be blowned up, sorry, thats not an option to me. engage in combat yes, but when i want and when i can, not when others want just beacause they want..."
"i personally think mutiboxing software is the worst thing that could eve happen to eve specially in pvp. it belong in another separate thread. i will not go into it cos the topic is not multi boxing!"
"let me speak from my heart in english try to add an opinion from a russian pilot, as there are not much of us who bother themselves to write in english :)i would suggest to start with a smaller change, which i've found somewhere on reddit: make an attacker pay, i would say, 300mil to get the structure reinforced. the reinforcement start time should calculate from the actual payment. the payment should be done before the next invulnerability window of the structure. time mechanic here does not matter much. it should be only done in a way, that does not allow abuse, like get immediate nodes spawn after payment. the pluses are:- easily implemented- will decrease trolling, which, in my opinion is the number 1 problem now, that makes sov boring- will still allow small alliances to venture in a 0.0 space, as it should not be a problem to chip in 50mil/pilot for a 20 man fleet to take over a system (tcu, ihub, station) if they really want to. for those who say it is a lot of money: get real, they will most probably use ships more expensive then that to actually make it happeni also agree on the statements of a tool for sov-war and sov transfer from the petition. all the other stuff i would not rush to implement: we had one big change done recently, so i would better avoid doing more noticeable immediate changes :)the prove, that changes to current mechanics are required, is that as far, as i've seen, the only people who think that current mechanics is working as intended are either those who does not live in null sec or don't get trolled a lot, because live 20 jumps away from low-sec. all those who trolled and got trolled (trolled is the key word here, not take over the space for themselves) are saying that some changes are required. changes and tweaks, i mind you, not reverting back to dominion!i guess the reason for this, is that people who didn't participate in trolling don't really understand how annoying that is. to make them understand better, i would suggest the following joke change:- a person can entos npc station to get it into reinforce with all the mechanics like sov structures and second reinforce- the result of 'taking over' the npc station will be taking away an equal amount from wallets of pilots, who has assets in that station, with a total sum equal to a cost of a tcu or an ihubwhatever ridiculous that change may sound, i can give you some plus points for it!- will encourage fights! (we have seen this plus point somewhere, didn't we?.. :)- will make people to only occupy stations that they really need (aha, seems to be a duplicate again! :)- will free some db memory, as people will trash stuff that they don't really need (we always should take care of the servers, aren't we? :)i guess, that will swap the opinions, and all the 0.0 pilots will say 'a great change, +1', while all the empire/low-sec would say \"if i didn't notice that there is a rookie ship there -- why should i lose money? why should i stop doing what i wanted to do and run 20 jumps to take care of my assets?\". and that is the case of a null-sec right now, which people, who don't live there, do not understand. it is not that \"why don't you drop sov where you don't use it?\", it is \"why would we drop sov where nobody is going to use it?\"personally, i would be happy to see some empty space getting occupied. but browsing through the comments here and in reddit i've seen the only alliance that actually tries to take over the space: the corvos and i really admire them for doing that. which makes it somewhat 50/1 trolling/real null-sec venturing ratio. and trolling would not get any empty space occupied.there is also one more problem with the current trolling possibility which i haven't seen to be discussed: it actually encourages blue-balling and no-atack agreements between large alliances. how is that, you would say? the point is that as a big alliance you would not start a war against another big alliance, that is capable to bring 10 waves of 1000+ troll-ceptors to reinforce the hell out of your entire sov within one vulnerability window. and it is not really hard, will only make each pilot pay 500mil in case he lose all 10 ceptors. this even i, after a year of play, can handle. not speaking of those, who play eve for years.one might argue: they can easily defend by splitting over their space and bla-bla whatever.. first, easy to say, hard to do. second, it will work only until the point, where those 1000+ ceptor pilots will reform as one fleet and drop the hammer on one strategic and really important system. and here will be the deal then: will those who split make it in time to reform as one fleet to defend their assets? may be they will, but what if they won't? so, in my opinion, current sov system increases risks of a large-scale war between sov holding alliances, making them raise a question: why would you start it in the first place? and i've got an example, where it worked out exactly as i think: we stopped our war with tri and solar and plussed each other. if you don't agree with that -- please give me an example of any descent scale war that is happening nowadays. i agree, that it is summer right now, everybody is new to the system and bla-bla whatever. let's see then, if that will change in autumn or not."
"true, i shouldn't have spoken so categorically. i keep watching the yrton constellation, which now has it's seventh different alliance deploy a tcu. and you're right, a smaller alliance, no matter how big, won't be able to hold system next to an larger alliance unless the larger alliance allows them to live there, even if the larger alliance never uses those systems despite having a tcu in them. that does not mean, however, that the larger alliance should concern itself with contesting timers in those systems every time one pops up. a tcu gets reinforced? pfft. doesn't matter. command nodes spawn and sit around for days? again, doesn't matter. hostiles capture the command nodes which pops the tcu, but don't put down their own tcu? doesn't matter. some other random group stops by and onlines a tcu? doesn't matter. if an alliance doesn't care about a system, doesn't have pilots living in a system, by definition the system does matter, and therefore tcu's don't matter. roam into it for fights. rat/mine in it. (although you won't get the benefit of an ihub of course.) but get out of the dominion sov mindset that tcus matter for systems you don't live in. after so long playing that way, i do realize how difficult it can be to let something go that was previously held so tightly, but for the alliance's sanity it's necessary now.the system is three weeks old. we have lots of people playing it as if dominion sov were still the applicable paradigm. it's the players, not the system, preventing meaningful conflict right now. perhaps you and i have different ideas of what it means to live in a system? living in a system means availability to defend it by definition, and there's no idle standby required. it does not mean constantly orbiting an outpost, tcu or ihub. you can be in station chatting on comms. you can be in space mining. you can be in space ratting. you have no less than 15 minutes to respond to an interceptor entering system. in our null system, my fleet is constantly, 23x7, on the lookout for interceptors and other hostiles. we have pilots spread out across up to six systems. we have advance warning. it doesn't interfere with our living within our home system. it's a natural part of our life there. we welcome the activity, even if it's an interceptor we can't catch but can only chase off.indeed, for example i do see quite a few of bl's fountain systems marked red on dotlan due to sma activity. no idea if sma wants any of those systems. but bl shouldn't have let those systems get reinforced in the first place. they have too many systems for their membership levels. trollceptors can't \"slip through\" if there are pilots in every system you want to hang on to."
"i would agree on the initial statement that ccp forgot to include tool like who and where been attacked beside the alliance mail. i think most reasonable people would agree on that.i do however disagree on paying 300m to attack something. thats just ridiculous. if you think losing enotosis ships, plus the rest of your fleet it cheap then good for you! only large alliances can afford 300m and god help you if you are going vs a monstruosity that is cfc. i can only think that unless you are planning a miraclous return of white noise and the drf, i dont see how someone can afford that .people complain about not getting enough action and then people blaim it on sov. where in reality everyone knows that the new sov has nothing to do with it. war creates content and entosis does that exactly. you have someone that does not like you and is willing to herass you to death and possibly take sov for themselves.i think taking a station is more that enough punishment for someone not to be able to redock. not to mention if you decide to destroy the local eco with alts in it. in the future maybe there will be stations that will blow up and you lose everything. that we will see. another topic for the futurethe whole point is if you dont live in that space, then it wont get entosed. so why not allow to entosis a system you dont live?forgive me for what i say here but we were roaming in your space using a wormhole several times. my god you got so much empty space its crazy. i dont know how or why you would put yourself in that pain. but i can tell you is that all that space should be used by someone. why should you get to keep all that empty space esclusivelly? if you want to get more people there and blue ball them fine, thats your choice. you can always pay them to go away like cfc has done in the past.i think fozzy sov its a brilliant idea and ccp should have done this 5 years ago. whats wrong is that alliances keep it and then complain about not wanting to defend it. that is wrong. its the front lines in null sec. it must be very dangerous.you guys have been in war for the last two years. i am sorry to say this but you guys did not prep for it and example cfc did.cfc was very close like your space before. lots and lots of empty space. now they still have much but no where near you guys. you guys failed at prep and were too busy shooting each other. i dont want to be rude or harsh but is the truth.some people are obsessed with this \"trolling\". i would say this. if you think you are been trolled is cos you have casted a wider net that you cant control. adapt. its been always the modo in eve. those that adapt do better than those that do not."
"trolling is not an issue. if you cant handle a few frig why could you hold your territory ?all your argumentation is founded on trolling is an issue. trolling is not an issue so your wall of text is irrelevant.the issue is not trolling, your issue is : you have a bigger territory then you can handle.the proof is : you can't handle a single frigsize fleet"
"well op made it to csm now it seems , so the ball's completely in his court now."
"i could not agree more. just a thought, what would happen to a city if there was no police any more? or what would happen to high sec if concord was removed. all the criminals will move in and chaos descends upon it. which is exactly whats going on here."
"and if you only had to respond to reinforced systems you'd have a point.easy as in easy to take, genius. read the rest of my quoted post there. i'd be happy to see people take inactive sov with rookie ships but require battleships to contest occupied sov.i know you're not, you're one of his lackeys."
"i honestly believe it's the lack of required commitment to contest sov. we've been saying all along that entosis links should be what make battleships relevant again. if you had to drop a battleship to contest sov you'd really only do it if you wanted to take the sov, not for a troll - at least not too frequently.and i get that, but why bother mining or ratting if you're constantly having to reship and chase around a ship designed not to be caught? a lot of people seem to want sov to be a career choice not an entertaining game mechanic. if that's how ccp want to take it, fair enough, but it won't bring in more players."
"my biggest gripe with the current system is that one no longer needs to commit to an attack. previously, attacking sovereignity required placing sbus and actually putting some effort into your conquest. while tedious, it usually meant that someone who went through the logistical and strategic effort of doing so had an intent of claiming sov. currently, it means that anyone can harass a sov holding entity. now, there isn't anything inherently bad about it.you can easily imagine - and i suspect the developers imagined it that way when it was first conceived - a situation where a hostile gang rolls in, tries to harass a system, a local fleet deploys to go and fight them. battle ensues, one side gets shot at - fun, nice, 'content' as people are fond of calling it.however, this is not how it usually goes. we all know how risk-averse players are, and said hostile gang will be of no exception. when a response fleet rolls in and the attackers don't have the guarantee of victory, they'll simply bail. no content will be provided.rinse and repeat.the stance on large battles i agree with whole-heartedly. the best fights i've been in never began as a consensual \"hail, mighty space foe! let us meet here at this node, ignore the objective and instead let us joust!\". no, they were fights when both sides rammed it down and fought no holds barred.those were the battles that mattered, they left the memories of frantic scrambling, pings of \"getin!\" bombarding you through comms, hundreds of pilots bridging into a fight, reinforcement fleets getting pipebombed by rnk.and finally, the issue of scalability.now, don't get me wrong, it should take effort to capture or reinforce a system. the opposing force should be given time to field a defensive fleet.however, a situation of \"we control the grid, control pretty much everything and the entosis link is running on the structure. now what?\" \"now the entire fleet sits and holds their dicks in hands for an hour.\" somehow manages to achieve a level of boredom higher than pos/structure bashes.in short, in pre-arranged lab conditions that don't factor in player behavior this system is good. that said, we're not in pre-arranged lab conditions."
"i think allowing entosis links on only battleship hulls and larger would be even worse for sov holders. just like in dominion sov where sov structures were reinforced but then no attackers showed up to contest the timer - that is, the blueball tactic we heard about a lot - you'll still have instances of systems getting reinforced yet nobody showing up for the timer... and the defenders will then have to jump around a constellation in battleships and capture ten nodes! that'd be so much worse for defending your sov than being able to use interceptors yourself!also, one of the expliccit goals of aegis sov was to make it easy to take unclaimed space. allowing interceptors to claim sov when nobody around is a good thing. as preventing an interceptor from taking sov is easy when the space is occupied.see, some people are the opposite of you on this, i think. some feel that ratting and mining are the dull career choices of eve, while chasing interceptors is the entertaining game mechanic. we have quite a fair number of kills where a skiff is the top damage dealer. we almost always have people docked in station being social who enjoy flying out to an ice belt or wherever and engaging a hostile who has come into system. it breaks up the monotony."
"correction....in previous they did not have to comit. they attacked and could leave or stay if they wanted. cfc is well know for troll sov aka \"i did not wanted that sov anyway\" or \"was looking for content not sov\".the same thing is happening here.the bigest battles in eve for the most part have been escalations. one brings something, the other brigs something bigger and more and more etc. this in no doubt will happen sooner or later. if you guys did not blue ball each other it would happen more oftern but here we are...stop blaiming ccp for your policies! you want content of massive scale fine, set a few of your blues to neut and let the slugfest begin. dont then wait for it to happen or deploy to an enemies territory just like razor and init are doing."
"i think the objection is that with letting interceptors and other fast moving ships use the entosis link is that we are still getting the blueball tactic. now instead of not showing for the fight, the attacker runs from it.granted, i agree that if nobody shows up and reinforcement happens and nodes spawn<U+FFFD>the alliance holding that system screwed up. they deserve what they get. granted if nobody shows up ever and they lose the system<U+FFFD>okay, again they deserve it.i think what people would like is for there to be some chance of shots being fired vs. just getting the warning, burning to the system under attack, damp/jam/whatever the ship with the entosis link, that then fucks off to another system to entosis the relevant structure there<U+FFFD>until somebody shows up and damps/jams/whatever again.maybe things will change on their own. defenders will get better at stopping the single frigate/ceptor etc. from doing the entosis thing. the attackers might bring more people, and fights will start occurring. but if not, my guess is that the current version of fozziesov will be changed.edit: typo"
"with dominion sov, the effort to attack sov was proportional to the massive hp buffer of sov structures, which was present whether or not the owners of that sov were present. with aegis sov, the effort to attack sov is proportional to the effort being put in to active defense. is there no defense? then there should be no effort required to attack. got titans, supers and a subcap support fleet sitting next to your tcu? the effort required to attack it will be extreme. no little interceptor will stand a chance if they make an attempt.actually, i believe what the developers actually imagined isn't that a defense fleet \"rolls in,\" rather they imagined the fleet is already there in system, making it exceedingly easy to chase off or kill a trollceptor, or dissuading a trollceptor from trying in the first place.those battles aren't gone. if somebody truly wants somebody else's sov, and the defender truly wants to keep their sov, you will get your large, pinged fights. (except that the fights will be spread out, across multiple systems and multiple grids of a constellation, hopefully with no sustained tidi. this is another explicitly stated design goal of ccp's new sov system.)i honestly don't see how shooting a tcu with guns for an hour is any more exciting than shooting a tcu with an entosis link. i've helped take down a few poses and pocos. it's very dull."
"sure you might get that, but you'd get considerably less people trolling to contest sov, so you woundn't be chasing trollceptors about all day.easier than dominion, which battleships would be. if you cant field a battleship to your target system, you probably shouldn't be trying to take sov.they may enjoy it now, but after they've chased their 100th disposable interceptor, they're gonna get bored."
"it seems this has become eve's version of asymmetric warfare, where the defender would prefer symmetric warfare.the fact that it is so annoying to major sov holders, is the point. , they have to address it.its a kind of balance to sov sprawl. eventually they will get annoyed enough to only hold sov where they \"have\" to, not every where ever they can."
"i think if you can not fend off what you call a \"troll ceptor\" that has only 25km to entosis then you should not hold sov. at least in that system anyways!"
"yep, i cant wait for the mittani to spin this one"
"the system is designed so that you have to respond on attacked before it gets reinforced. your indice give you buffer time to form up if needed. if it's 1 troll, only one dude from teh group living in that system need to push him off. if you have people living in that system, it should not take 40 mins to push off 1 dude. if you have enough people living in all your systems, that 1 dude con't reinforce any system as he will always get pushed off. if you have system where you have nobody living, then those will get reinforced because you obviously don't defend them with actual presence. this is what the fozzie sov system is about. presence in your own systems. if you can't push off a guy in 40 mins, you obviously don't have a presence in that system.if your indices are up, you can even let him get a few minutes of burning stront on cycle and then push him off and entosis it back faster that he did. he will dry out his cargo of stront and you can keep doing what you were doing before pushing him. it's a occupancy system. if you occupy your systems, it will be easy to handle. if you are an absentee landlord, you have to deal with not playing the game how it's currently designed. anyone who though an occupancy sov system would not require you to be in your systems missed the point imo. if you have 50 systems and can't keep them, maybe you should try to let one fall and see if you can correctly occupy 49 or even less until you hit a threshold where your space is occupied enough that trollceptors can't create such wildfire in your backyard unchecked. can stuff be made better about the system? yes. is the system complete trash? not if you actually believe occupancy sov mean occupancy sov. the name of the game is to be in the systems you hold. not put a flag in them and the dock in your staging for a ping. it's a rather large difference between the previous sov system and holding sov in unoccupied system is a pita but i'd be willing to guess this is working as intended.i wonder if you are supposed to use the timer to actively defend the space you live in. maybe team five 0 don't know what the goal of those index are...quote is from"
"and once again, it's not that it can;t be done, it's that it's boring. a game that is boring is destined to die. just look at it mate. a new sov system and the player count hardly blips.it call comes down to commitment though. an attacker is committing a trollceptor because they choose to, while the defenders are forced to commit considerable time sending each one on their way. it's like sitting around highsec shooting gank ships. the attackers don't care that they are losing them and keep sending them laughing while you waste your time. if you can't see how a system that allows people in a shitfit interceptor to be a threat to contest space that actually requires a response is a bad idea, there's no hope for you. i imagine they will make serious changes to it since it's clear that most people find it insanely boring."
"i know the trolling is stupid but that does not mean you can't flat out prevent the node contest from happening. i want the devs to make a statement on the trolling tbh so we know if they really want it to stay like that or not. i think it's stupid but my only idea to really make it less of a pita is to put the same added mass on both entosis link mod so the inty is actaully really burdened if it fit one.in the meantime, occupancy is the name of the game if you don't want to deal with orbiting nodes. someone has to waste 10-15 minutes every ~40 mins to push the troll and entosis the structure back to normal if someone came."
"yeah, i'm thinking that it could be good if, when an attacker activates an entosis link, it must be subject to engagement by whatever the defenders decide to bring until the node is captured... ccp has already taken a step in that direction by preventing warp while an entosis is active. but something fast can burn away in a straight line, and i don't like restricting speed artificially. what about restricting how from from the node the entosis ship can travel? like, the range of the entosis? so an interceptor orbiting a node at 7 km/s can continue to do so while using a t1 entosis - but could never get further than 25km away from the node? similarly for t2, with a 250 km limit. that gives the entosing ship the space to operate within its limits and use its appropriate tactics in combat - but for the duration of the capture, it's subject to remaining on grid and cannot simply burn away in a straight line. and to be clear, i'm talking about the capture of the node, not just an entosis cycle. in other words, like a reverse pos shield, anybody can land on-grid with a contested node, but any ship with an entosis link mod fitted cannot leave grid until the node is either fully capture of defended. shenanigans with mobile depots would, of course, be possible. but preventing an entosis ship from leaving i think can provide for some interesting tactics... including traps!"
"yep! three hels were destroyed in syndicate for just such a reason. that being, no reason at all other than two sides wanting to out-escalate their opponents. (which is why we lost badly the one time we tried to out-escalate some of our syndicate neighbors. it was, i think, the first time any of us had been subject to being doomsdayed. instead, we'll take fights with what we've brought, with the understanding we could lose it all. we can often get good fights that way. but we don't escalate.)"
"one modification i might agree with - ships with entosis mods fitted lose their nullification ability so trollceptors can be bubbled. wouldn't really change much for us though because we send our entosis ships with small gang protection looking for a skirmish."
"that, coupled with vs needed for t2 armor and ivs for t2 shields. also can't follow up on the missile sp issue. turret supports give you three turret-lines for four races. missile supports hand you a free choice of weapon systems for three races. from a solo/smallscale pvp-perspective, missiles are nearly always the better platform. comparing \"decent v\" toons (vs, specs to iv) for subcap gunnery and missiles, it's at 16mil and 11mil excluding dread things."
"having people required to leave their wormhole to run content through very low spawnrate is necessary for things to happen. in w-space, people farm their statics, some exploit everything in the chain, but all leave their homesystem to make isk and get ganked eventually in the process, with the exception of the bloated fat kids. ihubs would essentially eliminate the need to leave your hole and expose yourself to hostilities."
"hi everyone,i am here today to bring you an important message regarding the removal of a csm member <U+FFFD> gorga. the reason for his removal is the unacceptable level of participation that we have witnessed in a past few months. while we understand that real life issues can interfere with csm duties, we expect every member of the council to participate actively in our internal discussions.his inactivity was brought to the attention of ccp by the csm and after discussing the situation with them, and agreeing with their request to remove him from the council for inactivity, he will be removed today.as per mechanism that we established last year, we are replacing gorga with the next candidate in line. we have already re-run the stv script and according to the calculations uaxdeath is your new csm representative.i would like to point out that this is not an exception and we will continue replacing inactive members in the future. you will be able to read more about these rules in the updated white paper that will be published before the next election. ccp leeloo"
"now only one heartbeat away. *wrings hands*seriously though, good that the russians are getting some representation and i hope that he'll be an active and contributing member of the csm.eve down under - a community for players in the autz"
"good call, although it is a shame to see him replaced by someone who has been nearly as inactive ingame the last 6 months or so as gorga was when he ran for csm. xdeath's a good dude though. don't necessarily agree with his viewpoints on sov, but you need the full gamut of positions to voiced."
"good move. can you also release to public votes / lobbing of the csm members after some feature is released?"
"slightly off-topic here. i just bumped on thisi don't pretend to speak for a lot of people but frankly, the csm-related stories, the \"joys\" of nullsec politics and so on may not be followed by the majority of eve players. yes, breaking news, there are carebears living in highsec and perfectly fine with it, some even enjoy it! my point being, i browse eve forums (and the excellent /r/eve) and see loads of alliance/nullsec content, taunts and stuff being posted and i don't think this is really helping the necessity to open the game to as many new players as possible. right now, it looks like some weird secret brotherhood of people systematically crushing newbies. now let's have the -1 or equivalent rain, i guess..."
"we are looking into this."
"first of all the eve forums are not a great place to actually discuss stuff going on in the game. the vast majority of sub-forums are infested by trolls or just totally clueless people who have no idea of what is going on and the isd are doing a subpar job curtailing it. there are a a couple decent subs, for example the wh forum. there is a reason csm dudes and other noteworthy persons (the ones creating content for others) mostly post on r/eve (which you already read), fhc, twitter and the like.the reason you see posts about happenings in nullsec, nullsec and wormholes is because those people are making **** happen. they organised themselves into communities that provide content and thus enjoyment of the game. they are the ones posting about battles happening because guess what, ain't no **** happening in hisec apart from suicide ganks and market failures.i would also argue that newbie friendly organisations such as pandemic horde, karmafleet, e-uni and such are much better for the game than a random mission running hisec corp that no one has ever heard of, has no significant internal culture, no voice communications etc.im sure there a plenty of people who mostly play in hisec and enjoy the game that way. while there maybe aren't many \"jesus features\" (like the new sov system) for hisec to point to, the vast majority of game changes affect hisec too. for example, ui changes, ship balancing and corporation management improvements.we have had a dedicated hisec csm representative in the past and it sucked."
"if the csm were appointed this might not be an issue but since it's elected that means in order for hisec to get people on the council they need to communicate with each other and get organised. they need opinion leaders to emerge from their community who publish their ideas and actively promote themselves to their own would-be constituents. it's hard for hiseccers though because unlike more pvp oriented players in whs, low and nullsec they tend to stick themselves or play in small, insulated groups. a committed hisec csm candidate could pull together enough support to get up provided they were prepared to do the legwork over a long period of time.in other words - and i mean no offense - but the lack of hisec voices on csm is a reflection on hisec players; not an inherent flaw in the system.that said, current csm mike azariah in particular is a great advocate for hisec, and whatever their in-game proclivities, any decent csm will attempt to look at eve holistically in addition to bringing their own particular expertise to the table.eve down under - a community for players in the autz"
"looking forward to working with uaxdeath!"
"the dream is still alive!!"
"i believe fuzzysteve has already put something in fuzzworks for this?"
"cross post from /r/eve ("
"regardless of who is affected, i'm very glad to see action being taken to remove inactive, non-responsive csm members. those elected should take the work of the council seriously and actively contribute or gtfo."
"thank you for an opportunity to be csm once again. this came unexpected for me. looking forward to work with csm x and ccp team. ps. i do not work for digital forest, i own my own construction company in new york (which could be read here"
"uaxdeath congratulations!"
"i don't quite see the problem with this one. ccp is currently working on major null overhaul, it won't hurt to have a lot of people actively involved in null life in position of \"sanity check\" which is part of what csm is."
"fantastic i very much look forward to this."
"linkfix"
"congratulations, uaxdeath!"
"this is a lie, he actually is a world-renowned moonshine producer. the construction company is a front!csm 7 secretary csm 6 alternate delegate @two_step_eve on twitter my blog"
"pras"
"1.0"
"is this a new way of \"killing\" you competition in moonshining ?? you god danm bostonie"
"isn't it the same of democratic elections in any democracy today? getting to understand issues and taking interest in representatives takes work and research. this is not for everyone, and it is up to each of us to decide if we want to cast our votes by blinfdly following a tradition, or following orders or doing our own research... i somewhat agree with you, and i have a more jaded perspective. this game is very unique in the fact that it is one single shard and some players have been there for 13 years. some have amassed considerable amount of power and influence, much like some families of professional politicians have done in rl. this is fundamentally human nature. the weird secret brotherhood of players is working top continue their domination of the games politics, like any one in their position (even you) would do. they do not necessarily crush new players has much as inticed them to join their ranks, through all these training corps that are fundamentally funnels for new in-game taxes income.find candidates and groups that fight the establishment and say they will upheld views you can agree with and support them. my top listed candidates for csm x were borat guereen, ashterothi and chance ravinne. find yours and support them."
"i think what was being asked for, was about the request to have gorga removed for inactivity, rather than the actual voting for csm members.if i'm wrong about that:"
"what is your badly-expressed point? that ccp should ignore the rules, skip down the list past all the nullsec candidates with more votes, and arbitrarily pick someone who doesn't play anywhere except highsec?"
"i believe karma fleet, brave newbies and the pandemic horde would disagree with you on that. oh wait, they are all null sec entities - i include brave, because they may not have their name on the map they will eventually and in the meantime they're spending most of their time in null anyway.could your view point be because not much interesting happens in high sec and what does can be found on the miner bumping website, which isn't exactly a great advert for new players, but does give them an accurate portrayal of how to play eve online."
"was gorga contacted? or did he contact ccp as to explain his low activity? (no details needed, just curious)"
"how does lorealai keep getting passed over as a replacement?"
"empty quo... wait no."
"+1 actually. yes we can shoot it. this is more interesting and faster."
"annoying hassle. in most low threat cases, let them rf it then see if they actually show up. if they do not then set the miners on the nodes, they love that boring stuff.if the reds show up then n+1 and wreck their ships."
"now that is an interesting suggestion...."
"now that is an interesting response.i'm skeptical of fozziesov in its current form...but then again something like a sov revamp is going to probably need iterating on....in any event, thanks for the thoughtful reply."
"look at that, teckos pech praising anything that makes it more difficult for people to do guerilla hit and run type attacks. love the self-interested posting.the imperium has just got on with it and set up their systems adm, i have especially noted that exe seems to have been rather efficient at it. having done that you just have to maintain it and blap the odd person who won't be able to do anything really in your prime time with an interceptor. with your high adm its is perhaps working as intended because to rf your systems someone will have to bring a fleet for grid control. i have to ask did mo threaten to hot drop any one not ratting, quite a reverse in policy that one.for the past couple of weeks i looked in detail at estoria which is of some interest to me, even the die hard mission runners in stain are in sov space grinding, and many of their pvp'rs too, its only a few pipe systems which are getting rf'd but that is more to keep them occupied so we can do what we want, those people no longer have free reign to camp us in stain because we can cause them pain back on the systems they have sov on but don't use, so instead of hassling us, they are saving their systems.if you make it easier to kill something like you suggest, then you remove the ability for people to fight back against harassment by doing the same back, hell i have a way of being as annoying as afk cloaky campers to those people who just dropped an afk toon in every system i used, and i rather like it and you lot are moaning about it, typical.stop moaning, your coalition is doing it right and many others too, and another thing to note, the change in attitudes in this game will be even greater when the new structures come in, especially when they are destructible. this means that people should keep watching and learning, while waiting for that structure change to occur and then see how that pans out. personally i think it requires certain groups to die due to boredom before 0.0 can be fun again. i find the concept of people like the imperium, pl and ncdot doing whack a mole on any small sov holder pretty boring and that requires a long period of boredom for these groups in only finding one system to hell camp or people using sov in a nomadic way. ccp allowed titans and supers to ruin their game, coming back from that will take time. blocked: teckos pech, sonya corvinus, baltec1, shae tadaruwa, wander prian, daichi yamato, jonah gravenstein, merin ryskin, linus gorp"
"what precisely do you mean by \"fight back\"?will you hire a lawyer and sue ccp for loss of income? will you demand the refund of your subscriptions?anyway, your deadline expires in 60 hours. remember to ventilate deeply and thoroughly before you start to hold your breath."
"i have removed a post."
"okay lets think about this.a guys shows up, activates the entosis link waits for the first cycle to about finish then burns away....notice is sent and off he goes to the next structure. he does that for as many structures as he can, then docks up.is it valid? sure. there are damn few rules in the game and he is not doing anything all that outlandish given the mechanics.is he creating content? yeah, the people who own the sov will likely have to respond.most important question, is it interesting? no, not really. in fact, it is rather boring.now, i'm not saying change it, ccp. i'm saying my issue is that i hope this isn't all we are going to get out of fozziesov. cause if it is, that downward trend in players logged in...it will likely start going down again. when it goes down enough...none of us will be logging in (fyi, to my trained eye, the downward trend appears to have abated...lets hope it continues like that and even goes the other way).yes, the imperium is doing okay with this aside from the hot spot in pure blind. i'm hoping it leads to more than just interceptor gangs and other stuff running around using their entosis links or ******* off. i like the idea of people deciding to fight over a system, constellation, etc.i'm hoping fozziesov will become that. but everybody like you having a boner over the current situation is not really a good long term solution to the problems facing the game. to the extent that fozziesov results in a more dynamic, diverse and interesting ns....fantastic. no really. maybe some of the current alliances will let go of space and that will happen. if fozziesov induces some alliances to even....gasp...bring in people more dedicated towards things like mining i'm fine with it. after all, getting some guys out there to mine sites will help push up those indices. and hey, they can probably build stuff too...making sourcing stuff locally easier too. i'm hoping this is where fozziesov goes. i'm just skeptical it will. after all, to get miners and a dynamic and diverse null sec...you'll also need stability.think about it, places that are unstable and chaotic are not usually places where you find people thriving. those are usually places people want to leave. so for ns we need a healthy tension between conflict and stability. things stable enough for people to want to invest the time and energy into ns...yet with enough conflict for there to \"fun\"."
"that is a better post, i am not simplisticly getting a boner over it, i am telling you that i can now get back at the people who could and did afk cloaky camp me with impunity which is more boring than what you described, now i get into a specific fit loki with 250 km range 5,000 m/s speed, nullified cloaked and cause them pain back on the systems they do not use. you know that i will not do it on systems they use.many people in hisec are bored with the goon lead gank campaigns in hisec, its not interesting for that group on the receiving end either and it has resulted in people leaving the game, should ccp nerf ganking no, should they make adjustments yes, but they haven't.in terms of pure blind, there is a weak spot, poor systems with low adm which are difficult to get up to a defensible level and with good reason, its bad space. it is also border system skirmish warfare, but i spot checked a number of systems before i found a condor kill with an enosis link. but is there combat also around the mining sites or the anoms? that is also part of the battleground, not just the structure.i think the downward trend has also stopped, the numbers were showing more of a loss of people doing stuff in hisec, activity in null has increased, however that may be people doing frantic work to get their adm up. i am skeptical too, not so much at the issues people here have detailed starting off with the op, but more to do with the large numbers of people that will come in and hell camp anyone who sets up in systems that they can defend. add that to destructible stations which may end up being designed to be loot fonts then one has to say that it will fail.i think its too early for changes like you suggested. but also at some point there will be a fight between people who actually want the space and hopefully without third parties ruining it and then we shall see. but with a load of very organised and highly equipped bored people looking to kill something in this game i wonder if it would get the chance to actually happen. this system needs time to settle down, the imperium are leading the way in how they have structured themselves, but i see similar developments in estoria too but i would so love to see a real border war develop in pure blind. but i doubt it will happen because the same massive super and titan blob also looms over this system, because at the end of the day it is all about grid control in systems that people want to keep and in that case you will get big fights, but perhaps you guys won't get them because you are just too strong... blocked: teckos pech, sonya corvinus, baltec1, shae tadaruwa, wander prian, daichi yamato, jonah gravenstein, merin ryskin, linus gorp"
"i have another, how about any entosis ship that leaves entosis range without completing a cycle then the entosis module explodes and is permanently lost. that's 50 million (estimated mod price) and a refit needed everytime there is a failed attack."
"and once again, it's not that it can;t be done, it's that it's boring. a game that is boring is destined to die. just look at it mate. a new sov system and the player count hardly blips.maybe boring to you but defenetly not to me. i am on the offensive all day long. you are on the defensive. thats what you get for trying to defend a system thats you dont live in. i got more than i can handle and i am having fun every night.its early days yet and people are still working it out. besides other parts are left also to deploy.i am pritty sure once people realise that they cannot defend system that are too far they will let go of them."
"high sec ganking is 'unfun' for the person getting ganked, should we ban all non wardec aggression in high sec?perhaps every person ever ganked by goons should grab an entosis link and go get revenge by attacking goon space in pure blind. :)"
"have to admit that this has me quite concerned. at this stage i'm less interested in who is right and who is wrong and more interested in why people aren't logging back in. the new sov system needs to work from a player count perspective. so far, it ain't."
"it's nothing to do with systems we don't live in. even defending systems we do live in is boring. nobody wants to chase around nullified ships. never did, never will, it's a bad design. i understand that you are having fun because you follow your leaders in being overly grr goons, so the idea of goons having to waste their time makes you fap like crazy, but the system itself is just not entertaining.you keep trying to claim this is about people not bothering to defend or not living in their space and i keep telling you it's not about that. i couldn't give a flying **** what happens to space too far away for us to defend, but the system is boring as sin for space we live in. you hang around with gen eve too much."
"that's different though, since the players being ganked did nothing to be in that place. sov defenders put billions of isk and countless man hours into their space. ccp developing a system that favours aggressors trolling and is boring to defend is a bad idea.please do. i can't think of a faster way to get ccp to make changes than to mass troll sov holders. to be honest though it's only a matter of time if the csm have already been called up on it."
"did anybody actually expect the new changes to trigger big wars and bring players flocking back? the only thing that can make that happen is the leaders of null sec alliances.cfc dudes complain yet they themselves create the problem by blue-balling any threat. fozziesov cannot be judged a success or failure until some major players really try to take sov from other major powers.why don't non sov holding alliances like pl really test the mechanics by attacking goon renter space in pure blind?"
"it's not going to go back up, when those of us still playing are telling our unsubbed friends \"don't bother coming back yet. this **** is aids, and until they unfuck it, spend your $15 elsewhere.\""
"hello, i want an explain about , why in dominion sov mechanic attacking a system , i was anchoring at least 2 sbus that costs around 400milto attack,and now in fozziesov mechanic , im not paying anything , i have a system with strategic 5 bridges , capital constructions, why, someone to attqck my sov shouldnt lose anymoney ?"
"there are a number of other issues that impact player count, some people are waiting for the break up of the mega coalitions, some people are fed up being ganked, some people are fed up with their industry being nerfed and walked, some people left because they can no longer use multi-account control software, others because of the toxic nature of some players, others because ccp is presumed to be nerfing their htfu play-style when with the tick box on corp aggro.this new sov system is very much a work in progress and the final piece is the new structures, once that is in place then i think people can make a proper judgement and making nerf's before the full picture is in place and the pain is for systems which they don't really use much.the key benchmarks on success of not will include player count, but there are other pointers like for example new entities trying sov space. however if they make the new structures loot fonts then while you may be happy for your play style, others will say nope. blocked: teckos pech, sonya corvinus, baltec1, shae tadaruwa, wander prian, daichi yamato, jonah gravenstein, merin ryskin, linus gorp"
"kill the ship and they lose a module that is worth a lot of isk at the moment, just imagine that it is a sbu piloted by a player and you will be good. blocked: teckos pech, sonya corvinus, baltec1, shae tadaruwa, wander prian, daichi yamato, jonah gravenstein, merin ryskin, linus gorp"
"these are common themes i see over and over again. i will probably update this as more come.i dont want to spend the day running after entosis ships! owning sov/ihubs/stations is too tredious!this is null sec. its meant to be very dangerous. if you want to own something,you got to protect it. if you cant protect its very likelly you are either outgunned or have over extended your territories and do not have sufficient backup in the area.move into the area and defend and its very unlikelly it will get entosied or consolidate dont over extend your territories.new sov does not encourages big battles! new sov is borring!the sov is a small help to encourage small gang warfare instead of a big slugfest.quit blue balling everyone you find. set your neightbours to neut and let the slug fest begindeploy to an enemy territory, put a pos and attack them. dont blame ccp or new sov for your wrong doing.dont wait for the fun come to you. if you are an entity that pays off enemies to go away, stop doing itif you want more action.new entosing is like like mining! i want to shoot structures not entosis them!while it may look like a mining lasor i dont see it that way.i actually see it like a lasor. it has exact same mechanics. it get reinforced and needsto be defended when comes out of reinforcement and blows up at the end just like in previous sov.\"troll ceptor\" entosis!what you call a troll ceptor is a genuine to me attempt to attack and herass an enemy.they are easy to defend against. a frigate with entosis cant warp away and has to orbit at25km. really easy to kill. a cruiser with tech 2 entosis cant warp away. also easy to kill and catch with a ceptor.you can also disrupt their entosis easelly with a dampener or ecm.if you find your systems are getting entosied a lot, its cos they its very likelly you have over extended your territoryand have many empty or unoccupied. if it not, it would not get entosied.if its empty and you are not living in it, its fair game and should be allowed to get entosied.if you want to counter this, them move to the system. easy fix.if you have over extended, the drop sov in some of the regions and consolidate your power in less regions.this will effectivelly prevent others from entosing.otherwise get renters or allies to occupy the systems and maybe they can help with the system defence.cant catch a \"troll ceptor\" nullified!very easy to catch, get a fast ship lock ship like a keres and fill it with sebos and a point.trust me, it works. for the really hard ones, you can compensate with implants, faction sebos and or a booster.ccp did not provide the tool with new sov!true. ccp need to provide ways to see who attack, where, system status etc in game rather than offgame.i would also like for it to allow still to be visible off game as not all of us can always havea client at that momment.entosis should only be allowed in battleships! entosis ship should do 0 m/s speed!you are over thinking it. battleships need a buff in targetting, damage and tanking.battleships a middle layer between marauders and the current battleship.the whole concept of entosis and battleship is contradictory.entosis ship should not do 0 metres per second cos its not a disposable cyno ship.its a very expensive module and the ship cannot warp. its only chance is to try to out run you.and as all things go, you should not be able to catch everythign you happen to see. currently in the mecanics there is plenty of chance.bombers should be nerfed!a properly fit carrier will need aproximatelly 30+ bombers to kill within 2 minutes.thats a lot of people to kill one carrier.you can improve the tank even with a triage or have a cyno module for call for backup.also you can use links or even a booster to tank better.bombers are weak and easy to kill. any frigate can kill a bomber easy."
"i am still expecting goons. they are meant to take provi in two days. can they please hurry up and come do that?"
"i rather like your posts but you say that the person did nothing to be in that place, you mean they did not train up to fly a freighter or jump freighter or they did not pay 1.6 or 6.6 bn for the ship and they did not work to fill it full of stuff either. so thats billions and countless man hours all gone, at least with sov you can win it back, not the ganked... blocked: teckos pech, sonya corvinus, baltec1, shae tadaruwa, wander prian, daichi yamato, jonah gravenstein, merin ryskin, linus gorp"
"but they have no more right to the space they are flying that anyone else, that's the point. ships blow up, that's a risk we take flying them. but with sov people own their space and put a lot into holding it and it should take a reasonable amount of commitment and effort for someone to contest that.now don't get me wrong, dominion was far too much. you needed fleets of ships and structures and had to grind through millions of hp. that was far too much. what they've got now though is too far the other way. all you need is an interceptor and an entosis module and you just burn off into the distance if someone arrives on grid.what i want to see is a balance between those two extremes. aggressors should need to put enough on the line to mean that most people aggressing sov actually have the intention of taking it, not just wasting the defenders time, and it should be enough to make it worth fighting over. without that, major sov holders won't fight because they'll be too busy looking out for the hundreds of interceptors swarming their space, fights won't happen when small groups attack a larger one as they'll refuse to commit to the attack, and the space will be even more stagnant than under the old system."
"the same comment applies to people who do not use their space, if someone has their indexes to the top level then that interceptor is wasting his time and is being trolled back. the issue only really arises in terms of space that is not used, or which is being camped. this is where even people like myself who are sympathetic to sov holders pov go a bit glassy eyed, what about a cloaked alt in a rail destroyer or two, soon sort that out?my feeling is that the super powers in this game over shadow even this new system, because still at the end of the day its grid control that really matters, at the moment your leadership and that of ncdot and pl is looking foward to curb stomping someone who has lived in a few systems or a constellation and actively defended it. that threat is something that all current sov holders have to deal with, so i would like to point at the balance of this, small entities can go after space that is not used and harass that space. large entities can go after a medium sized entity in a constellation and completely flatten them no matter how they used that space, the superiority you have worked up still has its value. also your coalition through great strategic play set their whole area up securely and then was able to go around eve with impunity kicking butt, you ability to do that is reduced a bit due to this chore, but isn't that a good thing for the game, that strategic decision on home security also feature and do not rely solely on being miles away from anyone and protected by large ehp and a dominant cap fleet /blob in that area.there are many things that may be tweaked in this system, but the hit and run ability on systems that are not used much is not one of them.as one of the more thoughtful posters i hope you see that. blocked: teckos pech, sonya corvinus, baltec1, shae tadaruwa, wander prian, daichi yamato, jonah gravenstein, merin ryskin, linus gorp"
"oh, i'm right there with you on unused space. like i've said, i have no issue if they want to make it even easier to take unused space, but a disposable interceptor should be absolutely zero threat to used space. sov holders shouldn't have to waste time chasing around nullified ships all day controlled by people with no interest in actually taking the space.babysitting structures is not gameplay. remember that this is game, and it should be entertaining. no mechanics should be built around the idea of someone effectively turning eve into a job. some things should take effort, sure, but it should still be entertaining."
"as you might know i have been banging on about afk cloaky camping for years, where people not playing the game, stop people from playing the game, yet ccp has ignored any suggestion to deal with it. in my neck of the woods, certain stainwagon players do a lot of this, and with the new approach to sov i can say oh dear a cloaky afk camper in my systems that i use, hmmmph, instead of leaving my toon logged in and going off to play another game while i assess his likely playing times, i just hop into a ship with an entosis link and go mess with his stuff, suddenly my negative feelings about eve are improved.i would take trying to kill these people as a challenge and i would use the newer more motivated players to do it, sprinkled with a few gung-ho vets. over time this may settle down a bit, yes people will still do it to troll, but i still think its early days.years ago in b7 we had some test sb's in system, so we set a trap for them and killed two out of the three, they came back with a cloaky vaga to add to their fleet and it was fun dealing with that, i expect in time that type of skirmish escalation to develop, i may be wrong, i also expect that people getting fed up with a particular system will just push for a op to get the adm up so as to make it more difficult and hence cause a potential fight while doing that, both may create content.at this point people are trolling each other, at some point the gloves will come off for real conflict and then people can sit back and assess it properly, but so far its only really nibble like conflict in the main, though the tri and ra fight may change that.edit: i started looking at the pure blind systems under attack and yes it is harassment, but i have noticed goon systems losing adm, it looks like a harassment campaign that could develop into something more serious should you deploy to provi for example and looking at the kill board for 3v8-lj a goon system i saw some some skirmish fleets decking it out, looks good to me in terms of making strategic decisions for campaigns which are more than just looking for someone to blap, which in truth had turned conflict in 0.0 into a joke... blocked: teckos pech, sonya corvinus, baltec1, shae tadaruwa, wander prian, daichi yamato, jonah gravenstein, merin ryskin, linus gorp"
"thanks for being polite, i do appreciate!let me try to be short here.excuse me, but did any of you try new sov mechanics? if yes - can you tell me how was it fun? did you try to get any sov and hold it?if no -- then, sorry, your opinion is only a theory without any practice background.we had some practice with suddenly spaceships to actually try this new mechanics. it produced a hell lot of a boring content. so, the issue is that current mechanics allows to produce more boring content, than the previous one, due to a lot more ways to deny fights.and, i guess, suddenly spaceships also had their reasons to withdrew from that fighting... at least now it seems that they've left it: sorry if i am wrong here :)"
"did i try it, well i did rf one tcu, was it fun, yes, but that would wear off, no i did not try to get any sov and hold it, because at this point we need to see how things develop further with a certain erosion of the bigger entities, some from over-stretch like you and others from boredom because they don't find easy curb stomp fights using their massed firepower.did i try dominion sov, yes, was it boring yes, structure grind after structure grind with perhaps one lagfest battle which caused a collapse like a pack of cards, and your point is what? blocked: teckos pech, sonya corvinus, baltec1, shae tadaruwa, wander prian, daichi yamato, jonah gravenstein, merin ryskin, linus gorp"
"i'm in agreement with that, have posted the same many times. but it's unlikely to change anytime soon, and has nothing to do with sov. sov mechanics shouldn't be purposely made bad just because other bad mechanics exist in the game.it might do, but it's unlikely. only the bigger groups are likely to go for an all out war with each other, and as the russian alliances have shown, they don't want to fight when there's the risk of losing their space in a couple of days to individual layers in disposable ships. i can't see anyone choosing to deploy while that's happening short of us.i imagine we'd have a decent idea of how to cope with both. whether or not in happens with the sov system in the current state is another matter. that said, we only need to send disposable interceptors to hassle people out of their space."
"what i was getting at with the afk cloaking reply is that its boring and bad mechanics even though the alternative of forcing a log off would be gamed. and it is something that will be used against sov because the objective is to attack the development of the adm when it would be better to have rush and grab events.so far we have not seen anyone go for a full adm system or a capital system when someone has a reasonable force and fights full on for it, until that happens its too early to make an informed decision. i also think that the go off without any care in the world to mess with someone else for fun mentality sold this very complex game short, campaigns now have to be close and focussed along with defence, its a very good thing.you guys can send fleets of interceptors, but do you even try that against a fully focussed alliance with a core group of pvp players a long way away from any escalation ability, maybe you do, but that could turn into a turkey shoot of your interceptors, your t2 loki works well by the way and that is more of a pain for people to deal with, lthe arazu too. have you actually done that to someone well away from easy jump range for your caps and larger fleets? blocked: teckos pech, sonya corvinus, baltec1, shae tadaruwa, wander prian, daichi yamato, jonah gravenstein, merin ryskin, linus gorp"
"so basically \"ignore the objective! shoot people instead of playing node whack-a-mole!\", because this is the only way an actual slugfest would happen?this is how you actually lose in this system. the system does not require you to fight - in fact, it favours evading the fight. there will be no slugfest, because the aim of most nullsec coalitions or alliances is to win.it's almost like someone intends to turn the epic war of 0.0 into a contest where two people beat each other with squeaky mallets, seeing who gets driven to insanity and quits first.."
"with the change in the sov mechanics the imperium reduced their space and focussed on getting their adm up, however in pure blind they failed. the question one has to ask is why do you want to hold on to that space when its so boring to do so, well its a strategic need, you cannot allow people to sneak in staging pos's, currently you get it reported with sov, but you have to defend that sov to get that report. is that the only reason you keep those systems, do people want to live in those systems?those systems are the entry points into your space and there is npc 0.0 there, so you are fighting against those people based there, you keep those sov systems to bottle up the mordus legion and to prevent others sneaking in assets to do a surprise dunk, where is the value for you, is it to keep them focussed on those systems rather than harass your main isk making areas, that has a value.so you have strategic value in keeping those systems because they control entry to 0.0, you have the ease of intel for pos's during the current system before the new structures arrive and you keep mordus legion occupied around the edges in that area, all three good reasons to keep the fights there. perhaps you will not want to explain any other reason and i would understand that., for me while it is boring for you those systems which do not have anyone really living there act as a buffer zone. this is pure strategic thinking, but there has to be a cost for such a buffer.when we look at the russians who whined here, they are just exercising pure strategic judgeement based on the old system, their arguments having merit in terms of pure gameplay as do yours miss the impact of how this affects 0.0 long term.for me its interesting to watch this unfold and its too damn early to nerf the way that people rf things. blocked: teckos pech, sonya corvinus, baltec1, shae tadaruwa, wander prian, daichi yamato, jonah gravenstein, merin ryskin, linus gorp"
"it is, definitely, too early to make sweeping changes. a lot of mindset-shifting is yet to occur. that said, since we're supposed to 'reduce' living space, tools to build it up proper should be introduced sooner rather than later."
"i think what you really want by making the entosis ships battleships and larger is a reason to drop massive cap fleets along with your other friends in cfc again. you want it so you can remain uncontested as you were before ageis sov since no one could come close to dropping the number of carriers, dreads, super carriers and titans as cfc could especially so close to your home systems. the new sov system make the playing filed a little more even which lets be honest may not seem to be much of a threat to you now but it will be soon enough, especially when the fleets start to become bigger and more organized. i can even foresee a new niche being created out of all of this, merc corps and alliances built for one sole purpose, taking sov from the big and handing it out to whomever pays."
"no slugfest happen when important systems get occupied, pvp escalation happens or you deploy into someones back yard. it will happen more of then if you decided to set some blues to neutral since you got no one left to fight. at least not any ways near. i dont see how you are going to win but not fight? i mean to got to show up for to enforce and after reinforce a system. you cant win any other way. \"the system does not require you to fight\" is a fantacy to me unless you dont defend it in any of the two situations.epic battle will happen but it will not happen while every one is blue to each other! fozzy sov adresses that by forcing to down size in space."
"why would i care if we're dropping carriers or cruisers? either way we're going to outblob the opposition. the reason i want bigger ships to have entosis links is because i believe that attacking sov is something you should do when you want to take sov, and that should require a level of commitment. if you're too cheap to drop a couple of battleships, what good will holding sov for the three seconds you get to hold it do you?and no, the new sov system doesn't make it eve. smaller guys still stand no chance of taking wanted sov from bigger groups. no matter how you try to twist it more, better organised players will always win. all the new systems has done is allow people who don't want sov to be a threat using disposable ships causing the exact dull and conflictless gameplay ccp have been trying to avoid.lol, i'd love to see someone pay several billion to a merc corp to take sov, give it to a little guy then watch the big guy roflstomp all over the little guy and take it back. if you're too small to take your own sov how the hell do you think you will be able to defend it? remember, the easier it is for you to take sov from a big group, the easier it is for that big group to take it back.edit: thinking more abut your \"merc\" idea, the only way that would work if you continued to pay the mercs to defend your space. so really if you think about it, you're talking about renting."
"and rolling back fozziesov would just create absentee landlords who don't have to defend their outlying renter territory from any low scale harasment."
"which is why i'm not asking for it to be rolled back. i have no problem with unused spoace being easy to take, but attackers should have to actually commit to attacks, otherwise conflict won't be created. as we've seen, people will just fly around in cheap disposable ships trolling."
"....ya know, it would be sort of funny to charge isk for using an entosis link. i mean it costs money to declare a war, pay bills, use security tags, form alliances and corps, and maintain them. i think it is a valid point that sbus used to cost money, there was at least some ante on the table, even though a few billion is actually fairly trivial. it won't stop dedicated trolls (nothing can) and it doesn't give much player vindication (you still won't be able to blow most of them up), but at least it could detract a little bit from people who have no incentive and no cost other than time to go nuts. honestly we need more isk sinks.the ideas to disable nullification on entosis are pretty good. don't get me wrong, the onus of defense should be on sov owners, but it may be a teensy tiny bit tilted to attackers now."
"that's something i can get behind. i don't think anyone in wh space wants nullsec style sov but things that make a wh system feel more \"homely\" would be good."
"that is the best thing about it.as for the rest of your post, iain already covered it pretty well."
"null sov war impacts everyone in eve except that subset of super-new players that choose to live in highsec and ignore null.my alliance primarily concentrates our activities in highsec (with a moderate amount of lowsec and occasional wormhole activity). we do not aspire to own sov and allow members to be loyal to whatever sov holders they want or to none. yet sov affects us considerably.many of the, uh, clients of our ganking services are transporting items that are being imported to or exported from sov null. changes in null industry affect the prices we pay for tech 2 blasters (morphite is 12% of the build cost of light neutron blaster ii, and particle accelerator units are partly moongoo derived and are a significant component too).i've never fought in a null fleet fight, yet every time one happens, i watch to see what interdictors are lost en masse, and start making them in big numbers. (yes, i have 200+ runs of each interdictor bpc pre-invented for this very reason). i also made bank out of selling goons meta 4 sensor disruptors at extortionate prices during the halloween war.even if you have no interest in personally participating in nullsec blob warfare or even in leaving highsec, it creates opportunities you can seize."
"yes, we contacted him."
"because not enough people voted for her?"
"it is quite a convoluted system but it looked as though she missed a seat by one place."
"remember that who gets what voted cascading down to them depends on who is being discarded. although i am pretty sure that bam was the other person in with a chance depending on who dropped out next."
"not that simple.when people are eliminated, all votes they would have got cascade down their ballot one space. so if people have a good number of people on their ballot, the trickle is very important."
"2 yankees fighting about who makes the best moonshine......lol"
"not best, worst!csm 7 secretary csm 6 alternate delegate @two_step_eve on twitter my blog"
"i understand what you are saying and agree to some extent. however, they can do what they like. if they want the towers to have the option to get reprocessed they can, or they can lock it out. there are things that can be done to help the items noted but the suggestion gives more than one avenue and a profit to the person that takes the time to find it, and hack / salvage it. i said after 30 days, so you would have the opton of blowing it up or taking it down and putting it up for yourself or whatever just like your shield reduction - if not both. i would just like more uses of hacking and salvaging and these are two options with benefits."
"why can't the thukker array be used in all spaces except high sec (obvious) and all areas of space without sov. only sov spaces have a chance at bonused refine and bonused productionthukker array should be allowed in:w-spacelowsecnpc nullsec"
"edit: scratch that i need to look it up!"
"1.0"
"-1 to petition sounds like argis sov is broadly meeting its objectives.sov nullsec was not a vibrant content rich environment. it was a 'blue donought' where occasionally everyone would gank someone out of the club."
"i think you do care whether it is carriers or cruisers after all your modus operadni has been the super cap blob where in years past it was blobbing sub caps by various other entities. cfc took it to a new level with the escalation from sub caps to blobbing caps and you did it very well but the fleet composition of the entosis fleets now keep you from dropping caps to a certain degree which again makes the field of battle more conducive to smaller corps, alliances and gangs in general. ageis sov was intended to open things up for everyone else and so far it looks like its on its way to doing so. while those in cfc or whatever you call yourselves now may look at it as just a pain in the rear for others its creating content and its a way for the little guy to hit the big guy and i'm willing to bet we will see some really fun battles in the near future. you only have yourselves to blame for this cfc and i thank you on behalf of myself, mordus angels and the rest of the little guys out there looking to take swings (and land a few) at the big bullies out there."
"i think you missed the point. no matter what ship types are used, our response will be the same: blob the **** out of it. the only reason ship type matters is for commitment. right now, attacking sov requires no commitment. a solo guy can set up and alliance and contest sov on his own without losing much when he's undoubtedly stopped. this is why sov trolling exists and why most people attacking sov have no intention of fighting - thus create no conflict.if however people had to commit a moderate amount of resources to attacking sov, they would have a reason to fight for it and thus conflict would be created. dominion required alliances to commit far too much, fozziesov requires far too little. somewhere between the two is the right balance and the one i'm fairly certain ccp will find in time.and i get it, you're super excited because you can make goons react to your existence, but it's not creating the type of content ccp wanted to create. rather than look for balance you're just sitting there patting yourselves on the back, more likely because your overlord told you to rather than because you actually believe in it yourselves. i'm sure even you guys will get bored of mining structures before too long and you'll realise that what we're pushing for is what's best for the game."
"always makes me laugh seeing lucas talk negatively about 'overlords' when his alliance is part of the biggest feudal society yet created in eve. :)"
"anyway i'm done with this thread. o.p proposal gets -1 from me. make entosis ships lose nulifier immunity and destroy the entosis module if the pilot has to flee out of distance without completing it's entosis cycle. also cap the amount of capture nodes in space to 10 throughout the constellation at any one time and have a new one respawn every time one is captured."
"some of you have talked about rentlords.well that is te only one option that many corps have to go on null, they have no pvp guys on their corp, and probably they dont want to make pvp, at least on a daily basis. with this changes, renters have left just because rentlords cant reach everywhere and renters are not going to fight back, so if their system are constantly in reinforce mode, why stay in null and why pay for a system that dosent provide enough is to pay the bills?until all the parts usnderstand once and for all that there are at least two kind of players in eve (the hardcorers pvperrs and those who dont wish to pvp) we are going to see many threads like this one and others well knowned.this new sov mechanics are not going to attract new players into null, it will make the opposite.i guess the problem we are talking about here are not only this sov mechanic, theres something wrong or broke behind that and ccp needs to find what are wrong or broke and fix it.sov in dominion only can be contested if the attackers want to take sov, even if they transfer that sov to anybody else but that costs isks, now eveyone can contest the sov, not take it, its free of charge and do that everydays.ccp want to take isks from game, its easy...as the null sec has pirate faction they are legally the owners of that space, instead of caliming sov for alliances, make a sov claimable to corps, where those corps have to pay the fee<U+FFFD>s to those pirate faction in a proportion that have been charged to the renters by renterlords, those npc provide all the upgrades, they control the sov unit and the ihubs, corps pay the upgrades, onde they pay the upgrade are working, the npcs can provide more services like patrolling space if the renter corp wish to pay for that and so on. moonmining are only available for the renter corp and no one else can set pos<U+FFFD>s on that system, and you will see the alliances dropping sov, new players going into null etc."
"nothing wrong with leadership mate, it's how the world runs too. the difference is the level of control pushed down by people like gen eve and gevlon which prevents your members from being able to form their own opinions. i frequently disagree quite publicly with members and leadership of our coalition and there's no way i'd accept being told what and where to post like you have been. plus, let's face it, your leaders are considerable more childlike and neckbeardy than ours.careful, you might get yelled at and lose your funding."
"that's actually not a terrible idea. it might pull in on a bit of the trolling, given that the entosis module usually costs more than the hull it's strapped to, when used by \"sov guerrillas\" (since that's what they seem to want to be called). i'd still like to see prop mods disabled completely when running the link, but one step at a time, eh?"
"that's an interesting idea that i think merits further consideration.in the meantime, with entities like noc and bos getting involved in multi-billion isk fights (the most recent being 280 pilots in costolle destroying a total of nearly 200 billion isk over a period of 70 minutes,) sometimes over a pos, sometimes simply from the result of two groups trying to out-escalate each other, i can't help but snicker at sov null pilots who whine about a single interceptor interrupting their ratting and mining. sounds like they're better suited for highsec life. null needs more of the kind of pilot that finds chasing an interceptor interesting.i think i understand why bos is saying that getting kicked from cfc was the best thing to happen to them..."
"i am 100% positive that the recent bos fight had precisely **** all to do with interceptors lasering a node. the big fights have been caused by poses and money moons for a long time now. in that regard, absolutely nothing has changed.i can count on one hand how many people have said that chasing an instawarping, nullified ship is entertaining. they also happen to be the same people relying on those ships almost exclusively. funny how that works out, eh?"
"exactly. big fights will still happen when both sides are willing to commit - that hasn't changed with the implementation of aegis sov.what has changed, however, is the ease with which alliances could hold on to systems they don't use. once the alliances get tired of defending such systems, we'll still get the big fights over valuable resources/systems, and we'll still get the big fights just for fun, and smaller entities will be able to carve out small niches for themselves."
"you will until \"newpos\" ends up turning all structures into a node mining quagmire. then even those will likely stop, since there won't be a reason to commit large amounts of assets to attacking and defending those either.we shall see, and i hope you're right, but i know better."
"the problem i have with this logic is that it breaks one of the more interesting design decisions of aegis sov, which is that the defender decides how many resources the attacker has to commit in order to take the system, at least within the limits of the defender's ability to do so. is your system undefended? then why shouldn't some random in a frigate be able to take it from you, if you ignore every chance the system gives you to to defend it?is your system defended? then there should be someone there, or at most a jump or two out, to shoo away the interceptor before it can do much of anything. as it happens, the perfect answer to the entosis interceptor is the even cheaper t1 ewar frigate. unlike the attacker, you can have a big stack of them in your station for anyone to grab and use. you can even get fancy and use eafs or ewar cruisers. entosis the station to stop his progress, then damp him until he has to turn off his prop mode to be in targeting range, or just hit him with ecm and force him to go through warm-up cycle after warm-up cycle. troll the troll. then, if it's a vanguard for a serious attempt at taking your system, you'll be seeing a fleet before long. if it's just someone buzzing around, they'll go away.it's just natural that a would-be attacker would not blindly commit in the face of a response they can't reliably anticipate, anymore than you would fully commit to kicking a hornet's nest before you had any idea how many hornets would come out of it."
"you mean the citadels? i see it playing out similarly to tcus and outposts - alliances that want to hang on to their pos-equivalents will need to have a constant presence in the structure's system, which will promote consolidation and gives local entities the opportunity to acquire them from remote entities. anytime there's a real push from one group to take over a moon from another group who wants that moon, there will still be a big fight. (keep in mind that ccp has explicitly stated that one of their design goals for aegis is to change how \"big fights\" happen, so that they don't happen on a single grid in a single system, and instead are spread out across an entire constellation.)"
"even if an attacker had to commit more, that would still be the case. all it would do is raise the minimum. for an unused system, the commitment should remain low, but for a system that is used, the defender shouldn't have to go chasing every disposable frigate entering the system. one of the perks of system ownership should be that it requires more work from an aggressor.have you done this though? sure it's easy enough to defend, it's boring as **** though. you already know from the moment they arrive that you're not going to get a fight. you're going to get them evading you as much as they can and then likely cloaking up. even if you do manage to get a point, the attacker loses effectively nothing. without the need to commit to an attack there will be no real conflict generated by the mechanic."
"it does, regardless. it's not like you cycle the sov lasers once and everything is yours. but the whole point is to make the obstacles the other players, and get everything else out of the way. if there are no players defending the system then the obstacles put up by the game are trivial.besides, what requiring battleships will do is go all the way back to requiring overwhelming force, because unless you're picking off a border system that you know will not be defended (and how would you know that?) you don't send a single battleship. that'll just get picked off at a gate on the way. you send a fleet, with support. how big? well, if you want success then it has to be bigger than any predictable defense, which, because that's hard to predict, means that you're blobbing as much as you can. (remember, the odds are good that the locals can muster caps and supers more easily than you can). and if you can't muster that then you don't even try, and there are no smaller entities taking sov, and there's no conflict.and without the ability to poke the system in relative safety, to determine how eager the owners are to defend it, there will also be no conflict. that's the problem. nobody's going to leroy a fleet of battleships into a system just to feed you. they only will if they're convinced that you can't answer what they have. once you think of the interceptors as scouts, possibly vanguards, the system makes more sense. the fleet doesn't show up until the fc is convinced that he has a good shot at winning, or if the fc just wants a fight, he'll want to know that the defending fleet will make for a good engagement.i would welcome tweaks that reduced the level of tedium, but i like the idea that the defender sets the difficulty too much to compromise it."
"a solo pilot can contest sov in a disposable frigate. while he might not take it, he require a response every single time from a defender.if you owned a pos and i kept flying up to it and shooting it with a frigate and you kept chasing me off, would you have to keep doing it forever? no, you'd realise i'm just a frigate and ignore me until you needed to respond. so why does a pos require more to threaten than an entire system?and no, having to have battleships would simply mean that attackers would have to attack sov properly and would create conflict. all they are doing now is triggering notifications and running away when defenders arrive. it's whack-a-mole sov and it's bad for the game. the playercount not going up for such a pivotal change is a sign of how much of a failure it is.oh bull. nobody is \"poking a system\" to find out how many defenders respond. the \"fleet\" doesn't show up at all, because the people sending the interceptors have no interest in sov.even if an attacker needed 1 battleship, the defender would still set it. they might respond with just 1 man or they might arrive with 250 battleship or a full on super fleet. whatever the minimum bar is set at, the defender will set the difficulty between that and the number of members of their coalition."
"if chasing a lone interceptor is that boring use some of your renter-corp tax earnings to pay somebody isk to do it! it can't be any more boring then shooting npc's in a haven."
"alternatively, we'll just do what we've doing. crawl into an even igger blob of non-aggression pacts and roll in isk through renters. if ccp leave in terrible mechanics we'll simply opt out to the extent we can and it will be worse than dominion. i doubt they will though as they have sense enough to want to drive conflict in null, not drive further stagnation. so look out for the upcoming changes."
"just thought i'd share this from another thread.so people are willing to hellcamp npc stations for a whole month with no pvp content to destroy an enemy yet the same people won't chase around a lone interceptor? i think this goon just blew the arguement about entosis wars being boring out of the water."
"we do chase lone interceptors. the difference between that and this is that hellcamping is something people choose to dot. sovtrolling is a design flaw that all sov holders are forced to deal with. bad design is bad design. it's going to get changed, it's just a matter of time."
"wouldn't suprise me at all to see ccp cave in to nullbears like yourself but it won't be good for the game."
"of course it will be. games being entertaining is pretty much a must-have. them making the game less boring is a good thing, even if you're so \"grr goons\" that you'd rather see the game die."
"it shouldn't suprise you.if you know a single thing about the production and economic aspects of this game, it shouldn't shock you in the slightest."
"there is something to keep in mind, keeping people in ceptors happy trolling sov or changing nullsec so that it will be a diverse and interesting place?the idea of a diverse and interesting place is a ns with more people in it overall. that is, the idea of a fallow system with an outpost as a fob for either a war of aggression or defense will no longer be a thing<U+FFFD>.to have ns be like that you cannot have too much instability. people don't make huge investments in terms of time and (in game) resources when things become more risky (and the rewards stay the same). what happens when the members of an alliance think their alliance is about to cascade? move a bunch of ships and assets into their sov? or move their **** someplace safe(er)? what happens when a ns alliance gets war decced in hs? do they move more stuff around in hs with in-alliance characters, or do they switch over to safe(er) ooc alts, preferably ones in noob/npc corps, or maybe make use of red frog?that is why the linking to the ns statement on themittani.com was a bit disingenuous, imo. that entire document was about moving ns to being more self-sustaining, more developed, and having more people in ns. and yes, it seems the alliances in the drone regions are woefully behind the ball on pumping the average number of people in their systems."
"it does in shattered wormholes.ccp fozzie wrote:the seventy five standard shattered wormhole systems will be similar to normal w-space systems in many ways (including delayed-mode local chat), but will have a few important distinctions:* they will contain minable ice fields. this will be the first ice available in wormhole space.ccp apparently went with 101 dalmatians shattered wormholes."
"good day fellow playersnow that jump fatigue has been out a while, ccp are setting up to take another swing at the mechanics they released in the phoebe update.with this in mind ccp larrikin has asked for a round table to be setup for players to give feedback and ask questions regarding jump fatigue. this will take place on a teamspeak server on wednesday 12th august at 17.00 eve time. we hope to also stream this on twitch at the same time but no guarantees. the setup.during the round table itself we expect the discussion to be quite heated at times due to this we the csm as a whole are hoping to moderate the server to keep the discussion going. with this in mind we are asking you to submit questions in advance, doing this will be of great help to us and larrikin. after we have covered these questions we will then move on to other questions and feedback from people who are on the teamspeak server itself.submitting questions.when you are submitting questions we ask that you keep them constructive and on topic yet as short as possible to allow for as many questions to be answered during the round table. we also ask that you keep the thread as clean as possible and clear of any unnecessary moaning so we can wade through the many posts that we expect to be seeing. alongside this if you do not want to submit your questions in the thread itself you can also send questions to your own csm representative ingame.we would like to close submissions of questions on sunday the 9th of august at 23:59. this gives us the csm a chance to make sure we get all the questions into a document and submitted to ccp larrikin first thing monday morning giving him time to formulate answers before the wednesday round table. after closing of submissions we will aim to have the question list we submit to larrikin up on a google document for you all to see and prepare for on wednesdayafter the round table:this round table will be recorded and uploaded on sound cloud for people who can<U+FFFD>t attend alongside this a written transcript attached to this thread in the days following the round table. details on how to listen in.for those wanting to listen in to the townhall you can keep track by listening on twitch at"
"this is a group project with many of us involved."
"i may give this a short listen but only if my boy ronald is in attendance trying to make a tag team."
"omg, not enough popcorn in the world for this extravaganzacan't wait#setsalarmclock"
"in the run up to the round table are ccp able to release any stats so that we can potentially put our personal experiences in to context?- how often have various fatigue thresholds been reached in each of the months split by ship type. - number of jumps made split by ship type. - for cap fights above some meaningful threshold what was the fatigue min / mean / max fatigue of pilots on their final jump before combat.- for various fatigue thresholds, if the pilot stopped jumping after hitting that threshold how long was it before it logged in / undocked again?there are likely other stats that would be useful which others will think of."
"i will ask."
"what are your feelings on the jump range changes and fatigue changes as implemented now in fozzie sov?do you think the time investment for moving to a new area is fair?what are your feelings on the fatigue numbers for black ops?are you happy with the way the fatigue/range changes make certain groups basically unassailable?- as a follow up, as more groups start realizing where they are on the hierarchy, they spread out to avoid conflict with any group higher up, making it borderline impossible to force anybody into a fight. is this intended? are ccp happy with this?do you think it's healthy for the game when the typical response to having some fatigue and not being able to go on another drop or op is to just log off and play something else?what are your thoughts about a heavy reduction in fatigue while jumping into or out of your capital system?there are probably more i'll think of eventually"
"thanks. i went back and added some more, i'm pretty sure others will pop up too if you give it a few hours :)"
"please do. ill update my statment to working on it. :)"
"now that you have implemented a system where you have a capital how would you feel about some kind of fatigue reduction when jumping out of it?"
"questions are always good to see (statements are less good, as they don't give insight into the why)detail is good"
"what are the two best and the two worst result you've seen as result of the jump drive changes?"
"why are we asking ccp questions. a question is a really strange way to share feedback or experiences, shouldn't the developers be asking us questions? it's rather passive aggressive to have to warp an experience that demonstrates the negatives of jump fatigue, like a group finding it easier to self destruct a capital fleet, into a question.\"do you think it's a good things that players have decided it's easier to self destruct capitals than move them?\"that ends up much more sarcastic sounding than it needs to be."
"given the developement of various space chokepoints as a result of the reduced number of viable transit paths through low is there any thought to adjusting range to increase potential paths?as is we have places like aradia making the life of a super pilot one of waiting, boredom, and debating suicide."
"what are your thoughts about heavily reducing the jump fatigue and/or increasing jump range on certain ships (jfs, black ops, etc)?have you heard the community response that these changes have made moving from place to place much more tedious and un-fun? if so, have you taken it to heart? and if so again, could you please be better at communicating \"we've heard you; it'll take some time to dial in changes, but we've heard you and are working on fixing it\"?"
"i am sure ccp falcon can handle the sarcasm. he's really good at it. how satisfied is ccp with the changes?how have logistics changed? (more/less/same jf logi, more wh logi, more local production?)how long will ccp resist demands for fatigue reduction modules/drugs/implants? (my preferred answer would be \"indefinitely\".)what about these new structures, stargates in particular? are they planned to behave like normal gates or like current jump drive mechanics with fatigue and timers?"
"remove fatigue from jump bridges, and enforce that only subcaps can use jbs. like this you maintain a check on power projection with caps (which is 'ok'), while simultaneously giving an incentive to hold sov. it will also create significant content possibilities as sov systems with jbs in them will become strategic hotzones for attack - any entity serious about taking sov in a constellation or region would need to focus on cutting off those systems first. do this."
"what's the future plan for jumpfreighters ?"
"are ccp happy with the chokepoints 5ly creates?"
"what are the unintended consequences of the jump changes?given that there are two mechanic changes, fatigue and range, does ccp feel they can keep the goal of reducing teleportation ability by reducing the penalty of one of them.has ccp given any thought to how demographic changes of the player base (age, available time), the political situation (larger blocks), and jump fatigue, may lead to less conflict.what are the plans for jump range and the rorqual? its usefulness continues to be reduced, and ccps reasoning for giving it a short jump range revolved around its possible use as a battle platform, which is not the case (rare circumstances)."
"do you feel that jump fatigue hurts the casual gamer who only has an hour to play a night and therefore has to rack up larger amounts of fatigue over a shorter period of time is fair? (i for example can play 1 hour a night on weekdays)would you be considering to have a severe reduction or removal of jump fatigue for jumping back to the system you originally came from? considering that the whole thing was put ingame to stop capital gangs travelling to other regions at a rapid pace i dont see how this prevents it and would help with local capital warfare and moving ops greatly."
"which issues can ccp currently identify with the existing jump mechanics?i.e.what are the significant problems/weaknesses with the current jump mechanics as from the perspective of ccp?"
"does ccp have a metric on rough number of subscriptions lost due to pheobe changes?pheobe and isboxer ban were so close, it may not be able to split those 2 out though...."
"one thing that i think should be added is a reduction of jump bridge fatigue based on index levels. that would encourage people to use their space even more. added benefits are always a motivator for over all usage."
"isboxer wasn't banned as a whole but the keyboard and click broadcasting feature was. if i remember correctly, isboxer automatically disables that feature when eve is used with it. i could be wrong on that front though."
"how did ccp think fatigue would affect players in lowsec who like to use capitals, and why does it seem like our playstyle is, of late, being consistently **** on when their intent appears to be fixing sov nullsec issues?does ccp think that the balance team have the manpower and capability necessary to balance this game when so many veteran players seem to doubt it and unsubscribe?"
"is ccp willing to consider changes to the base mechanic, or are they more interested in tweaking timers and exceptions?change of mechanic example: jumping once out generates fatigue, but returning to the system (via gates or jumps) that you started in will give a significant fatigue reduction. jumping from your home generates fatigue, jumping again away from home generates exponentially more fatigue. jumping back towards home only generates the standard amount of fatigue, and the final jump home results in a significant reduction in the total amount of fatigue.balance could be an increased amount of fatigue gained when heading further from your home, but fatigue should be capped at 24 hours cooldown. it can still climb for the purposes of increasing the jump reactivation timer, but losing a month of capital/jumpbridge/titanbrige playtime is very harsh.subtle plug ^^^"
"there are two camps. first camp is the people who are against hot drop central where people would drop a dozen capitals to kill... a ratting drake."
"thanks to the smashing success of jump fatigue, merch industrial consulting services has developed similar additional mechanics for ccp to consider.we suggest: fleet warp fatigue - every time a fleet is fleet warped, every member of that fleet receives fatigue that prevents them from being fleet warped. this will drastically increase the requirements for individual player piloting skill. ship hull fatigue - every time you die in a ship, you should receive fatigue that prevents you from entering a ship of that hull type. this will drastically increase ship diversity. market fatigue - every time you modify an order, you should receive fatigue that prevents you from modifying another order. this is actually a good idea. specifically regarding jump fatigue, our main interest will be in ccp's rationalization behind how a given change is intended to affect player behavior."
"phoebe jump mechanics have introduced natural chokepoints in regional geography. post-phoebe, smaller groups can in some cases feasibly use capitals by properly monitoring and controlling these chokepoint systems without fear of being blindsided. a consequence of this is that some groups will find their capital fleets trapped in a region if they become surrounded by hostiles. other groups sometimes find the effort of moving not worth the trouble, even if it could be done safely. the result is that capitals are often confined to a region without much hope of ever leaving. is this a case of jump mechanics working as intended, or does ccp hope to make the movement of capitals out of a region more viable? does ccp ever intend to introduce something that can replicate the functionality of a pre-phoebe suitcase carrier?"
"i actually like that last one."
"1) \"who in ccp actually thought it was actually a good idea to use boredom and tedium as a balancing factor in a video game?\"2) \"why haven't they been fired?\""
"that's not a terrible idea... but then again, i don't think the best way to fix things is to add fatigue to them. maybe just further extend the wait time of modifying a single item. five minutes ( i think ? ) seems too short for a single item."
"i am just going to say i am semi happy with the changes and yes its a pain to move but then moving something the size of a small town should be."
"that was 3 years ago in lowsec on a station. why didn't the drake just dock?those who do not adapt, fade away. we do it all the time but within our own region due to the range nerf.those were more than likely alts, sitting there while they play on other characters. no one would sit their only viable character on a titan for 15 hours unless they were doing something else. attention spans are not that strong.the cold wars have been over for a long time. especially after the jump range/fatigue changes. the huge, news worthy, battles are over. they will never happen again. thnx ccp. the only \"regimes\" that are dying or gone and forgotten are the ones that failed to adapt to the changes over the years.the troops are leaving? huh? do you mean all of the alts that people used to be able to use?why would those of us that survived the changes want things back the way they were? deklein is a literal fortress thanks to ccp and we are actually using our space.i just had a few questions about your post and thought i would clarify some things for you. no pissy attitude implied"
"is ccp happy (or even aware) with how the changes altered jump bridge usage?would ccp consider changes that rightfully prevent eye-of-terror multi-region jump highways, but allow a return of in-region mobility (ie, like no fatigue for in-constellation bridge jumps, greatly reduced fatigue for jumps between neighbouring constellations, and slightly reduced fatigue for in-region between non-neighbouring constellations)?"
"q: i have long since sold all my capitals and capital pilots as they are not in a good place right now..is there a chance that we could ever get back closer to the way things were?my feeling is that the problem before was archon blobs and supercap blobs crossing the map in minutes. yeah that was a problem and screwed up the game. i feel like the fatigue approach was too heavy-handed in that it penalized all ships with a jump drive and not the blob.i would suggest an alternative to the current system: the more caps in fleet = the more fatigue you accrue. make it really really hard for a 250 archon blob to cross the map, kinda like the way it is now, but let a solo guy move himself fine.some would say: welp everybody would just move their cap blobs without being in fleet, but then think of the logistical nightmares of everyone needing their own cyno and not being able to coordinate and defend well against a trap or drop. thanks for taking another look at this."
"oh hey, my training in parliamentary debate finally comes in handy:\"would the honorable gentleman not agree that a mechanic which encourages self-destructing large assets rather than moving them is suboptimal?\"my own question: can you give us statistics about the use of black ops (jumps and bridges) in the month before fatigue and the month after? are you happy with the effect fatigue had on their use?"
"two main statistics i'm interested in: average amount of jumps per player (per month or week for example) before and after the change, actual cap use before and after the change (maybe from killboard data or some other internal ccp source) and a question:would it be possible to maybe differentiate for fatigue timers between jumps to normal beacons and covert beacons?"
"that sounds pretty awesome; however, that sounds like a system that can be abused rather easily. i've got a couple fun ideas already."
"generally these outreach efforts are a follow up. they are follow up to conversations and conclusions already reached by the internal audience (ccp/csms) and now validation of findings and discovery of areas of community push-back is done with the 'round table'.so, if we could cut to the chase - what changes have already been tentatively announced by ccp or suggested by the csms?obviously wing and a prayer for an actual answer here since it seems every time a csm talks about changes they start with \"i'm under nda, but my personal feeling is...\".grabbing popcorn."
"i would ideally like to see jump timer replaced with a reduced utility modifier. ex: instead of being forced 7 days to jump, you simply have a x% reduction in all damage, remote reps, self reps, nuet ability, etc). and limit it to a max of something reasonable like 50%. let us keep jumping for fights. what would ccp think of something like this change?"
"what is the expected logistices role of carriers at this point?these ships are literally named for their ability to carry and move other ships across space.the jump changes appear to have greatly limited the usefulness of this ability. the trend appears to be more tilted toward the use of jump freighters to move all object.the logistical difficulty of even moving carriers between regions is limited by chokepoints in certain areas and 10+ jump paths, is leading to greatly increased insurance fraud and moves that often simple leave capitals behind for the next inhabitants.what is ccps vision for how carriers are used & moved across new eden?"
"the affect that jump fatigue had on my playstyle was servere and although a lot of you dont agree with hotdropping as a passtime in eve, its no longer possible to play that way with the time i have available in an evening. since my after work wind down (eve) has changed for the most part to other more time efficent games because of fatigue, i no longer really have the motivation to play at weekends as any action i get then may stop me playing at all for the next week if i do get the chance. in the face of recent events, i would like to think that ccp values its vets and following the anouncement of this thread i am excited to see the playerbase respond with its suggestions and possibly even the chance to play eve again the way i love it. taking much loved content from your bread and butter players with 4+ accounts is not a good buisness stratergy... if there are no players left, who will buy the skins your making all your money on right now? 30 day trial chars? i think not.i like the idea of removing fatigue in exchance for an extended fixed jump drive cooldown period and ranges for dreads, supers and carriers to be extended back to its old value. this would alow the big tidi entities to get to their fights within a reasonable timeframe and move ops to be less painful for smaller groups. it would also bring back more local hotdropping and blops with triage as it is know, loved and feared throught eve. with the recent removal of the need to fight for sov or indeed anything at all, i think that the jump changes are just another way of stopping fights happening. it was these huge super brawls that got eve in all the news and setting records dont forget! i also hate the lack of options available on jump routes now, not only has a move op to help a friend taken me almost 2 weeks i have to use systems now perma camped and set up to catch heavy assets. i know were not desputing thera here, but with that wh acting as a instant free no fatigue titan bridge to almost anywhere in eve, any changes to titan bridge/jump range and the fatigue it generates is minimal as its no longer the fastest way of getting to a fight unless its at very close \"intended\" ranges."
"we're starting with player involvement so when we sit down at the summit we're working off of all of this instead of just our pieces. we can always shut it down and go and make decisons but i like it this way. we've already started so we might as well keep going."
"if you ain't gonna listen to me the first time i'm not gonna tell you again."
"has ccp given any consideration to removing jump fatigue and merely having ~5 min reactivation timer?"
"i think it might be worth screening the questions to remove the deliberately agenda'd ones. entering a question that submits the answer itself isn't going to do anything valuable, and will just waste ccp's time. for my own questions:the changes have seen a renaissance for the use of capitals by low-sec groups in low-sec. does ccp think this is a good thing?if they plan to increase jump range, (with attendant impacts on low-sec), how do they plan to mitigate this?also, sugar, you tease, sneaking this around :p. <3"
"have consideration been made to make jumping a bit more unsafe? as it stands now you can undock, wait for session timer and then jump, this makes using a jump freighter between station systems virtually risk free save for an unlucky bump. this applies to other classes as well. a timer where a black ops fleet can't insta jump to a super tanked t3 would give time for a mining or ratting fleet time to respond to the cyno. in both cases a timer would make really safe actions unsafe and make eve a bit scarier and riskier.also t2 bowhead with similar jump range to jf?"
"most capitals are already going to be on grid for 5 minutes anyways (siege or triage cycle) but something like 10 minutes would be a more balanced idea"
"we are making a master document of questions not just reading the forum posts one by one. it is not a single persons project which means all of our varied views will keep the topic at the top and not agendas... except for the agenda of looking at this mechanic."
"this is a great idea, but people can ask a valid question and propose a possible answer at the same time.will you also be trawling for potential mechanic's changes from this thread to supplement questions?"
"1. do you consider creating new smuggler gate connections, to remote regions like paragon soul , omist , outer passage, cobalt edge, branch , deklein , period basis. at current jump range , those regions are to far for logistics to be contested by any one. 2. do you think that is possible to introduce very expensive (price similar to carrier hull) capital rigs that will increase jump range.yes this is only to bring back carrier ship hauling. you need to have 3-4 midpoints to move yourself in 1 region ( stain). 3. if you consider reducing even more jump freighter range , will you also adjust map ( add few systems, move them a bit ) so regions like stain (and regions that use stain as logistic midpoint) , will not be cut off from npc supply lines. without npc supply route , for many groups , the only possible way to have logistics running will be only by having more blue , all along the route. 4. do you think that giving dreadnoughts increased range , and fatigue reduction can bring those ships back to more common use. they are defenseless without sub capital support."
"what are the overall statistics for capital and super-capital participation in combat, before and after phoebe? have they been participating in fights more, less, or about the same? some of us are certainly using them less. have they seen more use by smaller entities who are less afraid of a response from one of the major alliances?what aspects of the player base's response to phoebe are what you expected, and what has surprised you?which goals of yours for introducing phoebe are being met, and which aren't, and what adjustments do you think you could make to meet more of them?"
"but what are we questioning? we are asking ccp about our experiences over the last 8-9 months? asking for stats and hearing about what ccp's opinion is does nothing to clarify how the player base feels. what we see in this thread are people morphing examples of what they don't like into questions. so the answer that ccp larrikin gives, doesn't actually matter. the important thing is that the intent behind the question is noted. an event where ccp does more talking than listening does not seem like a good starting point."
"the problem comes when people answer their own question, as if it is the only answer. still, i think ammzi has the best question so far. i'd like to see an answer to \"which issues can ccp currently identify with the existing jump mechanics?\"i would also like to see \"what successes has ccp identified with the new jump mechanics?\""
"i doesn't hurt if people want to answer them.agendas can be valid, yes. i believe rob was more speaking of nonproductive agendas aka trolling or just snarky anger. a question and proposal isngreat. how and why you got there is also useful to me due to the thought processes.consider this a mingling of our normal soundboards in a more townhall format. we did not want to restrict acess as we need to in an open discussion forum. this is a big topic but we are going to take it on. we would like to be as smooth and productive as possible along the way."
"dont worry until we call the whole thing off because of one persons approch. ;)"
"what are the top 3 issues that ccp feels needs addressing in the next balance pass."
"these are good questions, but there seems little point in only trying to find out what ccp thinks about these mechanics.generating additional questions with either possible mechanics or questions about implementation so far.edit: also, i did sat proposed, but i take you point on people saying their way is the only way."
"note: i can't fly any jump-capable ships, so i have no personal agenda here.with that out of the way: has ccp given any thought to more interactive or tactical penalties than watching the pretty timer count down? either making a more and more complex minigame out of traveling to the destination, or penalizing the accuracy of the jump (whoops, wrong constellation! should have slept more!) or anything like that?more fundamentally, i guess my question is: even given satisfaction with the outcome of the jump changes, is ccp investigating refinements with similar effects but more engaging gameplay?"
"keep fatigue, increase jumpranges. basically ccp's mechanic forces players to give away their account details when they are on vacations, oil rigs and military deployments to move capitals so they are not stuck without cover when their alliance moved during their hiatus~."
"no, you are absolutely correctso, maybe i should say isboxer most used feature banned, although screen management still oki think 99% of people know what is meant by isboxer ban....or maybe they don't, i dunno"
"here is my question. has anybody at the csm and ccp considered the simple idea that jump fatigue is actuality ok as is and does not need any more tweaks?for me i see it as ok, for my current play style it has had a positive impact where i live in black rise. i can now go out in battleships if i so choose solo and not be in so much fear of a capital blob drop (yes i mean blob not blops). yes i know it can still happen. but due to fatigue the bigger groups who like to use that sort of play style now choose to save the fatigue for the bigger fish. this leaves me free to pvp at the level that i am able to field.for them guys that are bitching about fatigue and range. i only have 2 things to say., learn to use gates. and learn to probe wormholes. i am a believer that ships in space = more fun for all. them that stay docked up and only jump from station to station just want no risk logistics. well. htfu as i have had said to me many a time. eve is hard. and we all like it that way"
"that's why its an open call. :)"
"q: will ccp take action on admitted account sharing?"
"the stacking timer has got to go or eased in some way. fatigue on blops makes no sense and has got to go too."
"might as well expand that to ask what the future plan for capitals is, period."
"me. my personal view is that people have come to rely on bridging way to much. and once it got nerfed they struggle to cope."
"how does ccp think about a exponential fatigue generation in combination with longer jumpranges?marking the current jumpranges with current fatigue while allowing further jumps with old ranges (maybe even more?) but dunno 10x the fatigue to allow stragglers catching their mates at price of fatigue? the math would bring much lower fatigue for short jumps, this would add some extra salt to route planning :)"
"blops. can we get a look at returning them to their small gang, deep strike roots? the reduction in fatigue they get currently is nice, but after jumping, you're still stuck where you are for nearly an hour unless you're going to jump straight home and be done for the night. this pretty much makes blopdrops and blopsbs' tiny dreads with slightly better range and escape.a blops gang that lives in catch should be able to make even afktars in fade nervous."
"folks, i am one of the people helping to collect the questions. so you know? i ignore people who cannot follow basic instructions. i am collecting questions. if you write some commands of what you want done i will pass over you and go on to the next person. this is not your oppostunity to give orders it is an q and a session.now i know you lot are intelligent enough to write specific ideas in the form of questions and i welcome that. flat out ccp do dis. just won't make the cut. . . . any questions?mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"the game is more balanced now, but the price of that balance is just ridiculous. the pace of this game was slow enough before the changes but now i find myself playing other games while waiting for timers to count down. anyway questions for ccp.what is ccp's plans for capital pilots to still have a place in the future of eve?when will the revelation be less terrible?do you think it should be safer to move super capitals solo? or should people that miss moveops just unsub?"
"100% this. increase jump ranges of carriers and dreads. titans and supers not so much, but taking 11 cynos to go what used to take 3 cynos is actually disgusting. and for example akkio to todifraun (1 gate jump) is 3 cynos.. sometimes ccp u nerf things a bit too much xdim aware this isnt a question however i do mean it more as an observation."
"but bp, there is a gate, or there used to be one when i live there, did you blow it up? ;-)"
"i did start mine with a question before going off on my demandrant."
"my question:ccp...can you come up with a way to increase the imagination of players so they can discover ways to play the game other than sitting in capital ships waiting for a timer?as a suggestion for an answer i would propose you introduce the following into the game:every other kind of shipthanks."
"will ccp consider returning the original jump ranges for caps? i think the fatigue does a very good job of balancing the power projection and i would leave it alone but current range of caps precludes even jumping out of lowsec to null in some (most?) regions."
"the issue has never been jumping into fight with a fatigue timer. the issue was ~moving~ multiple jumps in a quick time. a 5 minute reactivation is actually not bad. means 5 jumps = 25 minutes. which at current jump ranges is not a terrible proposal. 10 minutes is something i'd expect if dreads and carriers are given old carrier jump ranges."
"could be fatigue reduction in some way a \"bonus\" for holding sov in 0.0 space ?"
"agreed. discussion and ideas have already taken place. give the player base the ability to react to these while adding any additional questions or concerns they may have.edit - i'd also toss in that discussing the phoebe changes in isolation, without regard for what may or may not be coming with changes to capital and supercapitals, makes it difficult to really evaluate whether or not range and fatigue is where it should be. there is a lot more to the issue than just revisiting fatigue or range."
"maybe there is more than one issue here, with more than one solution?now, another question from me for the thread, and perhaps for the soundboard also.i think my biggest issue here is not knowing what ccp intends for and from jump fatigue mechanics .i'd like a response to \"what does ccp believe is the 'point' of jump fatigue mechanics?\".\"what are they meant to achieve, beyond 'moving from a to b' taking more time?\"a firmly stated concept by ccp of their aims is good for all of us, because csm and ccp (and perhaps the players!) can come up with ideas. existing in this no-man's land of confusion does none of us any favours."
"hello, so here's a thought, why not keep fatigue in place, but return the range back to 10 light years instead of 5 ?"
"i personally am a huge fan of the impacts jump range decrease and jump fatigue are having in lowsec. i would like to see it stay as it is until caps and supers have been rebalanced (if they are going to be)."
"yeah, why are the players asking the questions? don't you all want to know what the players think hence you're the ones with questions?here's a question: what are the changes coming to capitals and supercapitals so i can better frame my questions regarding how far and what fatigue should be incurred when they are jumped.?"
"could you consider adding a branch of new (ship specific) skills that could somewhat curtails the effect of jump fatigue when trained?"
"black ops could use some love. the jump fatigue reduction is amazing until you realize that your range is also quite big - so you wind up with roughly the same end result.are there any plans to address this particular issue?"
"this is a townhall type thing, dirk. like a podcast it is better to have a dialogue consisting of a chance to ask questions rather than giving folks a rant stage. that is why the questions are being collected and sorted and pre-sifted. getting a dev to take time to answer some of the questions coming up is a big thing (imho) and i do not want to a) waste it or (b) turn it into a sidetracked discussion. thus the moderation. i actually do like to know what the players think and they are welcome to send me opinions/requests anytime. but this is different. and tell me that you cannot think of questions whose very content do not let the person being asked know exactly what you think.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"what are ccp's plans to offset the emptiness of null that has been exacerbated by shorter jump ranges making null 'bigger' and more empty? follow up....are ccp now ready to take meaningful actions to drive more people into the area of the game proven to inspire new-player acquisition, or are they content to just tweak at the edges of jump (and sov) mechanics, use only null carrots (and no hisec sticks), and ultimately leave it to player groups like brave newbies to be their overall player growth strategy?f"
"can we have some way to alleviate the fatigue we rack on?"
"why have you not iterated at all or taken any kind of feedback on phoebe in the year that has passed?allow me to quote the devblog:hahahahaahahahahyeah, right.you said you were going to iterate and consider feedback, yet you have clearly not done any such thing. why?"
"side track - most awesome name ever"
"just one question - what are your thoughts on re-introducing suitcase carriers in some shape and/or form? maybe by introducing a t2 variant of jump capable bowhead in order to make moving smaller ships easier/more viable for people or maybe giving rorqual such a role by allowing its sma to take any kind of ships?"
"ah, you can almost smell the agenda... oh wait, you can. still, the emptiness of null is a big problem, and my (since we're now onto the unrelated questions!) questions is this: \"with the jump fatigue mechanic changes, when does ccp plan to remove any region without a gate to high-sec or low-sec ?\"this would provide the competition and pressure for resources that is sure to create good fights.(feel free to edit the above out if you want, oh wise and powerful isds)my real question: can ccp create different types of fatigue to inhibit/encourage certain behaviours?if so, can ccp create relations between these types, so 'gaming' mechanics is impossible?we don't want to create a 'blops' fatigue reduction only, because people will just abuse it as a semi-settled jump bridge network from station to station."
"although the csm may not share the same thoughts, could you take a look at jfs and consider making logistics more of an investment instead of a risk free teleporting box that you can jump almost without penalty?maybe apply more fatigue to it and increase the number of null to low or null to high wormholes to offset it and apply more risk and therefor content generation."
"1 - please consider re-vamping the ranges associated with phoebe2 - fatigue is suppose to reduce power projection, which it has, but moving caps at all is now overly tedious.my suggestions would be 1 - tie the fatigue to the ship instead of the pilot.2 - boost jump ranges for super capitals to 10ly, regular caps to 7-8ly3 - re-think what fatigue causes, jump re-activation fine max it at 8 hours not 30days plus."
"maybe you can use your imagination and figure out that different people like different aspects of the game. maybe if you used your imagination you could try and contribute instead of shitposting."
"jumpfeighter: it seems to me that the current jumpfreighter fatique mechanic is not going to stay as it is. is there already something planed to reduce either the jump range and or increase the fatique per jump or a timeline when ccp looks at jumpfreighter the next time?"
"if you actually enjoyed different aspects of the game you wouldn't spend your time sitting in a ship, waiting out a timer, complaining about your single-minded gameplay being hampered, and then not even playing the game as a result. that attitude is the exact cancer to eve that these changes were designed to destroy. working as intended."
"q: when phoebe changes were originally unveiled, all ships were being reduced to 5ly (except black ops) range. after the epic threadnaught from jf pilots i believe ccp fozzie said that he would temporarily be giving jf's 10ly while they sort other aspects of the new eve, e.g. things like material availability in different regions. where are we on this roadmap? if the plan is to now keep jf's at 10ly, will you reconsider the rorqual's position since it is an industrial ship with only 5ly range?--fang"
"the rorqual was given the 5ly range because of fears that the drone damage bonus would make the a rorqual a gank machine and the whole process of limiting power projection would be de-railed. so since we are playing parliamentary procedure i guess the question would be...is the rorqual's drone damage bonus still considered too strong to allow the rorqual to have a 10ly range? would you need to remove the drone damage bonus in order to give the rorqual a 10ly range?of course this lacks the context of talking about what emergent roles the rorqual has lost due to being kneecapped at 5ly. so the discussion ends up focusing around the drone damage bonus instead of how the ship is actually used and how that has been negatively effected."
"remove the drone damage bonus, this has been said by others many times. also stop rage nerfing its functions (clone vat bay recently nerfed with anyone making jump clones anywhere).why not give us a rorqual rebalance as you kept promising us. my questions still remain valid. i'd like to hear about the roadmap and where we are on it.--fang"
"if i had to guess, the rorqual revolves around the new structures. they won't announce anything until determinations are made regarding moon mining arrays. all from what i get is nda. maybe a year basically."
"q: is there anything being planned to make capitals more mobile, placing their threat range somewhere reasonable between local and global?supplementalso we went from massive capital fleets being omni-present everywhere within 15 minutes, to capital usage and movement being extremely localized. dropping capitals in certain areas is currently hilariously safe because there are no other capital forces within 10 ly that can actually punish such vulgar displays of power, which should not be the case. obviously having the dreaded 15 minutes till pl arrives was also not good; we need a happy medium. instead of stasis caused by everyone is everywhere all the time, we have stasis because everyone is nowhere all the time. it's hilarious that people are better off literally self destructing and re-buying capitals than trying to move them. it's also hilarious that, since there is no threat of a capital escalation, ratting carriers are essentially untouchable barring gross human error and negligence.there is a goldilocks zone of capital mobility. we are not in it. too far, to fast, and capital usage becomes impossible outside of the biggest coalitions. too small, and you get capitals being worthless, or too difficult to punish. increasing all ranges by a small margin would probably be a good thing, and tweaking fatigue numbers to be slightly lower."
"different people enjoying different aspects does not indicate that those different people enjoy multiple aspects, only that those aspects are different. for example, i enjoy capitals and battleships. both have been **** on repeatedly by ccp, but only caps and bridges apply to this thread. goon's weaponised tedium, but ccp are trying to make a game based on it."
"with grinding taken away from eve... what are you plans for supercarriers? would you consider making supercarriers motherships again?make them ships that give a boost to range and a reduction to jump fatige and stuff.would you also consider turning fighterbombers into a capital senties?there are no stupid questions... just stupid people... ccp goliath wrote:"
"you must be new to eve.the pos code is so old and so fragile, that ccp has decided not to fix it, and has planned to replace them with citadels.there is no point making suggestions about pos, as they will eventually be deleted.your idea is not a new nor original suggestion. it just isn't going to happen."
"no, hardly new....whatever changes are coming, which i like, can be included in some capacity? im sure it can and we don't have all the details of the future changes.changes for pos's doesn't mean the same thing wont occur with the new set up. go beyond the negative and try to be positive in the thinking. how can something like this be incorporated for the future?. when is that going to occur? next patch? next year? what about in the meantime - is it a easy change? way to much to go off of rather just your simple explanation of why it wont work."
"the thukker component assembly array exists because lowsec capital builders cried out that the reprocessing and industry changes in crius had completely destroyed manufacturing there.there was a huge dumping of capital and capital component bpo by lowsec industrialists closing-up shop, many were listed at below npc cost, i.e. the effect was real, and it was of disastrous proportions.if the array were allowed to be used elsewhere, then other changes would be required to maintain the lowsec benefits.i don't imagine this happening. it is just too much trouble for no point whatsoever after the required nerfs. ccp ytterbium wrote:thukker component assembly arrayas we mentioned some time ago, we are also going to introduce a new type of component assembly array to help low-security capital ship builders to compete with the reprocessing changes."
"you are absolutely correct....however, the same inequalities that were existent in lowsec are also existent in npc nullsec and wormholes, yet they got the big fat fu. all i am trying to advocate is leveling the playing field amongst all entities as compared to sov nullsec."
"so, it seems not all of lowsec is created equal. i was just told there are places in lowsec you can't anchor a thukker array as wellhophib, which is you look on dotlan is a 0.1 system, in game it is 0.1, but on eveeye it is a 0.03 (0.0291)thukker restrictions are 0.1 to 0.4, which in ccp means 0.05 to 0.45 most likely as that is how they round off numbersyou can't anchor a thukker array in hophib. feshur, egbinger, naga, karan, yekh, balas, vestouve, sakht, anath, yiratali am sure there are more systems like this, but it just goes to show the restrictions are pointless, in the sense of anything other than high sec, and sov null. i don't think anyone will argue they should be allowed in those 2 places"
"oh, look at that. all the way back in march, almost as soon as the dev blog came out, i was looking for alternatives and compromises to fix an obviously terrible sov system.wands have fixed times.can't improve your ship to finish a node faster or to repair it faster.it provides a \"griefer's paradise\" (i believe i started using that phrase along with \"whack-a-mole sov\" first.i suggested before, that the developers maybe take a month or two, to play eve more, code less and really think about things before pulling the trigger and dumbing down sov."
"not only the drone lands, from east to south its the same, guess the populated area should be north and west... guessing why this sov mechanic have been released when theres one colalition that cant be defeated. ccp heve been making mistakes during years and still ongoing to make some more. better leave all systems that are not in use, and let ccp see with is eyes that nobody are going to claim that sov<U+FFFD>s. maybe those who like this sov system will go there claim it all..."
"lol what is this? do you call that group \"the collective of old isk and stable renting empires\" ?fozziesov was supposed to hit people like you and this post is a mere confirmation of its working. not that your arguments got no substance, but that list on its own is a hilarous collection"
"yeah, except even sion agrees with a lot of what he's saying, and has stated as much here."
"this is starting to remind me of when i reach the top of the tech tree in some sim or the get the best gear in some rpg.it gets harder and harder to find the game fun.kind of like in eve once your alliance has all the best gear.after awhile you find it hard to keep doing the same ol sov hp grind, so you complain for the devs to come up with something better.once they do come up with something \"better\" and you find your \"best gear\" isn't really needed anymore, you say \"who in their right mind...\"i'd rather grind sov hp in the best gear than this? even though your complaints about the old system got us here.but i think the issue goes back to what i was saying before, how once you get the best gear and top out in the game, it can be hard to find the game still fun. it increasingly becomes harder for many.what do we do? well, we could keep trying to find a way to make the game fun again for those who have the best gear, though i think that would be far harder and never please any sense of a plurality of eve players, especially when more and more have the best gear.or we could zero the clock in a sense, kind of like starting a new instance in that favorite sim or rpg.and i don't mean a reboot of the game, that could be even more challenging to find a happy plurality of eve players than a whole new sov mechanic.-i suggest we get rid of all current supers and titans.-give owners some very high percentage of estimated build costs.-refund sp and cost of skill books for titans to all players.-allow them to sell or keep the mods on their own.-bring back titans and motherships as unique items, that require some special component found in exploration to build.(and are removed after extended periods of non-use)-and keep the new version of sov, with improvements over time.so sov still doesn't need to be a hp grind, and now we have some \"best gear\" that can be owned, but only a set number can exist at any time, so we don't get into a situation where everyone has the best gear, all the time.with only one titan and mom per major faction, we could have 6, 12, or 18 different ones, that could significantly influence battles, but not normally decide them.so, the best gear would be very hard to get for any individual and can change hands due to destruction or terms of surrender.this idea could fall like a lead balloon, but i think the idea that it gets harder to have fun in a game once you have the best gear is a valid one, at least for many of us.we could keep kicking around ideas and kicking the devs when we get the chance, but i think the problem is more within ourselves as to why this game has become tedious for many of us.kind of like when you reach the top of the tech tree in a sim and have nothing else to improve. i think the solution is to limit \"the top gear\" and allow it to change hands.then only a very few are affected by this, and the rest of us can vie to de-throne them.this could go a long way to improving the game for all, and no longer having it as super caps online, as some like to call it."
"goodbye economy."
"now that fozzisov is around, can we get rid of fatigue completely?"
"can you boost all ranges to 10+ pls and make this game enjoyable again?"
"q: what do you think about removing titan bridging completely in combination with making carriers / super carriers literal \"carriers\" and forcing pilots with their ships to board them in order to be jumped to a fight in a destination system? it seems like it would put capitals on field and give them a real role again.p.s. recommend 7-9 ly for dreads / supers and 9-12 ly for carriers regardless. love the current fatigue system. it has given us back in general though, the ranges are slightly too short and some of the choke-points are currently extremely difficult to navigate."
"since ~questions~:have you considered the fact that a large number of alliance logistics (jf) pilots will ragequit if you drop the jf range even more, and the effect this will have on the average small alliance in deep null?"
"i prefer the way that it is now. if it was any different, small alliances would be completely afraid to use dreads or supers again. that was not good. in order to protect their dreads and supers, everyone got into shaky blue status with groups like nc. or the old cfc.the only changes that i would prefer with jump fatigue are changes to covert ops bridges. blops are too risky to use now and take too much time. blops used to bring a whole lot more content. i feel like blops are the unfortunate bystander victim of the phoebe jump fatigue changes.otherwise the only thing that i can think of is reducing the fatigue for dreads and carriers but keeping it about the same for titans or supercarriers. the new range limits are great though."
"is there any way to eliminate chokepoints that must exist? it makes owning supercapitals really difficult."
"making a game play aspect boring and time consuming in order to balance it is a terrible game design choice no matter how you look at it."
"why is ccp tending to 'balance by tedium' lately? ie jump fatigue and fleet warp especially.did ccp consider nerfing the power of blobs instead of the projection?"
"a set of kinda-linked questions:is jump fatigue a needed evil because of the current state of capitals, or is it felt to be needed even if capital fleets weren't in the state they currently are? could a heavy rebalance to the nature of capitals see jump fatigue removed, or are all future thoughts for capitals being supported on an assumption jump fatigue will remain in place in perpetuity?is any full capital rebalance dependant/reliant on the complete roll-out of the new structure system?is it in our interest to support as early-as-possible removal/replacement of poses in order to get capitals rebalanced?rationale: it has kinda been my opinion that the problem with caps/supers is they are balanced around the ability/necessity to damage/repair high-hp structures. this means they need massive dps, which means they have to have even more massive ehp to survive the dps of their own class. with the introduction of entosis-sov, this fundamental underlying requirement is going away, and once pos are fully replaced and removed, there will be no need for this massive structure-grind dps. how this relates to jump fatigue, is that it only seems needed due to the massive blocks of high-dps invincibility that full cap-fleets currently represent, if that could change (and i personally believe once pos are gone, it can), it doesn't seem so mandatory anymore."
"i really like the geography phoebe has created. it has even helped break up the giant coalitions. all of this is good. i see people complain about logistics, but remember logistics is directly related to power projection. do we really want to shift things back towards this?"
"phoebe's jump mechanic changes is the best thing what happened with lowsec in the last years. these changes greatly increased the number of small capital fights occuring in the regions with low security. everyone who live in these regions and have jump-capable ship can now use it without constant threat of nullsec blobbers coming after big ships in next 10 minutes. as for nullsec, people who live there are now feel completely safe and they use capitals in any way that you can think of and they dont even have to think about consequences of camping gates with titans and so on. nullsec dwellers from the fartherst corners of the galaxy simply cannot lose a capital fight unless there is a sovwar. there is no way to bring capital reinforcements to tenal\ce\paragon soul\omist\most of deklein and many other regions unless you live around (claim holder). wouldn't it be any better if nullsec had a 50(75,100)% jump range bonus for all capitals? that could do good for both - claim holders and those who want to fight with them."
"how does one nerf the power of blobs without it being extremely arbitrary?"
"blobs are powerful when no one can reasonably assemble a like force, if you could assemble a force that rivals the blob, then you can fight. right now in order to fight a gate camp with titans and sc, it would take 2 weeks to move to a system close enough to make it in one jump.gate camps typically don't last 2 weeks, or if they move gates, it takes another 2 weeks to move in range of that....."
"so will this be council of nullblob management whining until ccp caves in and reverts the jumps changes? are the days of cap blobs travelling across the map in 5 minutes back soon?"
"fatigue is a necessary mechanic in my opinion, however its nowhere perfect right now.obviously giving all ships the same fatigue amount is somewhat off, and punishes a lot of specially younger people who do not understand the mechanic. however, i would not remove fatigue completely from subcaps, as otherwise it would be abused again. for an organized entity it would be pretty easy to build up a \"titan highway\" through lowsec / npc nullsec to project subcaps fleets virtually everywhere.so i would suggest to somehow tie the fatigue generated to the mass of the ship, much like wormholes.in addition to that, jump bridges should generate a lot less fatigue. the routes of jbs are fixed and they are basicly stargates with an access control list. unless ccp wants the player-constructed stargates that soon[tm] will be released to generate jump fatigue aswell, jbs should have no fatigue either.the stakes to install jbs in the first place are already quite high."
"im not exactly sure how to phrase this without it sounding like it has a bias to it, but with the current jump ranges, fatigue, and distances between regions, is the reduction in power projection outweigh the pain currently involved with massive (alliance or corp) moves?"
"there are some corps that offer exactly that,i can for example refer to this:"
"sovereignty blockade unit's were made reimbursable through npc trade. i would like to see obsolete bpo's (original blueprints) able to receive a reimbursement option as well. i understand that bpo's are not packageable, but something should be considered to make this possible.thank you"
"asked and answered about a month ago:"
"this is the same type of rounding error that prevented moon miners from being anchored in 0.4 systems for years."
"this thread needs more support, come on people.dmc"
"just want to remind people how goons fight wars and why fozsov needs to stay, quoting from the infamous thread on reddit about goon tactics pre the recent changes.their whole tactic was to bore attackers to death. now the shoe is on the other foot we get so many tears."
"love how this thread is hidden in a forum only nullsec alliances tend to read, nothing fishy about that at all.yawn, i'm right as usual. the predictability kinda gets boring really."
"what response, though? undocking an alt in a maulus? you don't have to stop what you're doing. you don't have to form up. it's an interceptor.if somebody really wants to mess with you, they won't send a trollceptor. they'll park a cyno-equipped covops in a safe spot in your system and go afk.because ccp is completely changing the way players interact with structures. a pos is an old-style structure that has overstayed its welcome by a decade or so.if you want to understand the change, just look at dominion sov as ccp intended it: they were certain that the giant walls of hit points presented by structures would deter players from destroying them; they would essentially be passive, while players fought players. well, that didn't exactly work out, so now there are no hit points. there's just a module whose entire raison d'<U+FFFD>tre is to tell the server that you're there to assert a claim on a specific thing. players can shoot other players. or station services, if they prefer that.if by conflict you mean that they could be picked off by bomber wings on region or constellation gates, sure. i understand that the imperium would very much like to defend at its borders.convince me that anyone is going to send that many billions of isk your direction at that warp speed without a fairly high assurance of victory--say, gained by sending a frigate ahead to provoke a response and relay it back. if you were to go and take a system and you had to have one battleship with a fitting crippled to accommodate this link of yours, what would your support fleet look like? what would be a reasonable number of pilots? how much isk would you be willing to put on the line?you say that they're running when defenders arrive. why are you bothering to muster defenders, plural? it's free intelligence for your assailant, and for an interceptor with comparable tank and dps to a venture. its entosis link can be trivially hard countered by absolutely anything with a t1 entosis link. undock a maulus, lock the station, turn on the entosis link. lock the interceptor, turn on damps. orbit the station at 500. run a small shield booster if you want to, just in case the interceptor pilot loses his mind and decides to attack with his dozens of dps.what am i missing?"
"you're missing the 499 times you had to do that since last thursday, in a adm 6 system. real exciting game-play there right? boy, what a conflict driver, just look at those battle reports.\"it's only because of their stupidity that they're able to be so sure of themselves.\" the trial - franz kafka"
"any response is bad. back in the day, a single person coming into a system in s crappy frigate going \"i'm gonna take your sov lololololololololololol\" would be ignored as they are no threat. now they are as much of a threat to sov as a solo titan is. a response is forced by the bar being so low and worse will result in no conflict in nearly every case as they'll just run away and cloak.which is fine (though i don't like afk play but that's another matter) because they open a choice. you can leave, ignore them or hide until they go away. ttrollcepors don't give that choice. not chasing them means you get reinforced.so under he new system, when the new style pos comes out, you're expecting them to be able to be taken out by a lone frigate too? in less time than an entire system can be?by conflict i mean ships exploding one way or another. that's not going to happen when they can just as easily contest sov with a ship designed to run away. those players serious about taking sov are attacking with fleets. that should be how contesting sov at al works. sov is an alliance level activity. it should take a decent amount of investment to do and how much you are willing to put on the line should be dependent on how much you want the system.they (plural) are running when defenders (plural) arrive. this happens in multiple locations at any one time. yes, each one only requires one ship to respond but in all the places it happens it require multiple responses."
"yeah, that could create some high inflationary pressures.another option would be to refund majority of the costs via game time, except a titan would result in well over 5 years game time.not too sure how many would be happy about that.or just give them plex, but the plex hoarders would probably hate that.maybe 2 yrs free game time, 24 plex and some limited bpcs of a alliance tournament quality ship that only goes to them would do. :)yeah well, anyways... i'm getting carried away here.i still think what i wrote holds true, but compensating those who currently own them is a complicated issue.how do you do it in a fair way that doesn't create havoc somewhere else in the game."
"do you have an idea without ccp giving the players money? just curious."
"are there any major technical hurdles to implementing the \"tether\" system? distance from starting point so that you can move around the same region much better but harder to go far?"
"some regions are grossly different sizes, if you are at the edge of a large region, you could go the other way and leapfrog 2 regions"
"as a point, the changes in geography have very little to do with power projection, and far more to do with the aegis sov system: you have to live in your space in order to hold it. rental empires full of renters who won't fleet up to defend the space can't be defended by landlord alliances - the entosis links have to be in the rental alliance. this doesn't change even with the ability to project forces across the map in minutes. if you don't have the population density to hold a region, you won't hold it.nor are the power projection changes the cause of the 'break up' of the giant coalitions. the cfc/imperium didn't break up, and n3 is currently in the process of re-forming as pl gets ncdot settled back into delve, next door to darkness' guardians of the galaxy coalition. i expect once ncdot is firmly in place, they'll be joining the guardians, who they've helped in multiple battles already.now, to the question:one of the explicitly stated intentions of the phoebe jump fatigue changes was the limitation of power projection across the map, while retaining the use of capital ships in a localized, defensive role. the 5ly distance certainly helps with that, however, the fatigue often winds up having an excessively chilling effect - especially given the need for relatively rapid response for entosis defense. capitals are already an extremely poor choice for carrying the link itself (a t2 link will lock a capital in place for 20m, minimum - 1 10m warp-up cycle, and then the 'active' cycle, which will have to run to completion regardless of whether or not the structure requires only 30 seconds of entosis work to fully restore). this has an overall effect of making these ships largely useless for defense against the harassing tactics using small, light, fast interceptors that were warned about - and which have emerged en masse, despite widespread claims by the community that these tactics would be impossible, and efforts by the devs to ensure so-called 'trollceptors' would not dominate the entosis meta. put simply, the capital ships cannot provide the ability that would seem their primary advantage - the ability to leapfrog across multiple systems in order to defend nodes while subcapital fleets pursue intruders more directly. they can jump once. and then wait an hour before attempting to get ahead of the interceptor(s) a second time. let's face it, an hour later, that interceptor (or group) is probably long gone.with this in mind, is there a possibility for tying jump fatigue to the adms for the system you are jumping out of, possibly via ihub upgrade? considering that capital systems are also frequently market hub systems, this would also have the effect of improving the ability of nullsec entities to support and maintain local markets and local manufacturing - another stated goal of the phoebe changes, as the intent behind the inclusion of jump freighters in the fatigue was to make deliveries to and from highsec less desirable than local production, and so stimulate local manufacturing."
"i have one question, although a bit of offtopic.when the iterations of jump fatigue and aegisov are done, what will be the next thing null security space will absolutely need from ccp so the rest of the game keeps getting just random scraps of content?"
"well at the time fozzie&cosov was announced i remember ccp saying that jump fatigue didn't go with the sov changes,is this ccp attempt to justify removing fatigue or are they just collecting tears?"
"resource/income distribution, and a balance pass on the 2 aspects you just mentioned should about cover it. then ccp can ignore 0.0 for another 5 years, as they did between dominion and crius. and then you can go back to saying that you'll definitely, absolutely, you really really mean it this time, quit eve for ever and ever if you don't get wis or wholly instanced pvp-free grinding, or whatever other windmill you want to pay ccp $15/mo for the privilege of tilting at on these forums."
"i hope this dosent get lost in the mess that this thread is bound to become ok ill start this by saying in all i like the jump changes if it was a choice of having them in the game and having not in the game i would keep them they addressed a major issue of the game and solved it my question is regarding the collateral damage caused in the process by this i mean black ops and jb networks they have lost there effectivness and usefullness and ause barrier to participation ie i cant go with the fleet through this jb because i have a timer they dont so i get left behind and go back to the station and spin i can not think of a solution that would solve the issues entirly without bringing back the old issues but here is my 2 cents and my question is it possible to change the system so that the amount of fatige reciveed is in relation to the mass of the ship jumped and the distance jumped rather than just a base multiplier times distance this would help negate the pain of traveling around in own space to join up with people by useing small fragile ships but more importently further incuraging black ops use but keeping the fix for capitals"
"please please please dont allows this round table to become a bunch of the big ali guys wining over there super fleets they were nerfed for a reason guys so get in a real ship and put some effert into playing the game no more we win buttons for the large coalitions is this rearly engaging content for both players"
"q: will we see the other industrial ships get the 90% reduction bonus e.g mining barges exhumersq: will we see the other, other industrial ships get the 90% reduction bonus e.g navatis, mining frigatesq: will we see shuttles and or newb ships get a 90-99% reduction in jump fatigue q: could we see a -50% fatigue for logi shipsq: what are the chances of having jump fatigue removed from alliance jb networks all together. or having it tied into sov levelsq: are we likely to see a reduction in capital jump fuel (isatopes) required per jump now that we have jump fatigueq: will the monthly ihub upgrade bill and cost in materials to build said upgrades for jb, beacons and cyno jammers be reduced due to the agis changes e.g jump fatigueq: will we see drones being reinstated for supers and dreads now that their movement is more risky. and there are less structures to grind. or will they be given more high slots or turret hard pointsq: will we see high slots and hard points added to freighters and jump freighters due to the new risks they must face being encouraged to go gate to gate q: with jump fatigue reducing the amount of surprise hot drop ganks are we likely to see a deployable mobile local scrambler structure. not scoop-able half a days life span, scan probable, that hides local count. like how local works in a worm hole"
"my isusse was not so much with the jump fatigue and more to do with the nerf of jump range, why couldn't you leave the range that we had before and scale up the fatigue instead on the current basis of range.apart from that i support the changes and like tha fact that people can have localised combat without having to maintain an ultra large watch list for all pl, and ncdot capital pilots. but i am aware that many people have lost the chance to do fun, so you might want to allow one jump without jump fatigue to 5 ly based on the current jump range and even if you put it back to what it was, start it after the first jump of 5ly. blocked: teckos pech, sonya corvinus, baltec1, shae tadaruwa, wander prian, daichi yamato, jonah gravenstein, merin ryskin, linus gorp"
"i don't see that as being too bad. the regions that are huge tend to have one really exploitable link inside anyway."
"5 ly for carriers seem a little excessive what about 7.5 ly max skilled. but on topic at least give us a skill to reduce jump fatigue timers and/or the exponential factor that goes into it. as for big blocs using it and possibly exploiting it yeah it happens. but so does that one or two guys that fleet up without jc 5."
"has ccp considered the dual role of carriers in logistics vs combat roles? there is no other way to transport assembled ships.would they consider a module (rig? implant perhaps?) that allows for a longer single jump? perhaps some modification to jf that allows assembled ships?perhaps logistics and combat should be further separated. not sure of any of the above solutions, just food for thought."
"i think this is the opposite direction that we need. if you want small ships to get around your own space use an interceptor. frigates and destroyers don't need any help traversing space at this point. if you are going to look at differentiating subcap fatigue bonuses it should be based on class. so as a question. would ccp consider giving subcaps different fatigue bonuses based on class? if so would you consider doing an upside down pyramid approach, giving the larger ships a bigger bonus, as travel with these is more tedious than travel with smaller ships?the heavier ships get bridged into combat the lighter stuff travels by gates. essentially this is an extension of what we have with capitals already."
"that's ok. we can blame isboxer sub losses on phoebe anyways to help convince them to reverse this awful change. i want my power back."
"we've gathered all the questions posed so far and now we are putting them into subjects so that we can have some cohesive structure. also, the discussions between questions are useful. thank you for participating."
"forgive me if this has been stated elsewhere the threadnaught is too long!i would like to say that as a low sec resident in the amarr/minmatar warzone for the past 18 months that that area of space has become much healthier for content since jump fatigue came into effect. we used to have a major capital supremacy group stage within the warzone who could and would project those capitals across the length and breadth of new eden with ease. when they were bored they would drop capitals on anything in the warzone larger than a destroyer fleet if they could.jump fatigue made them have to choose where to base much more carefully and the health of the region has blossomed since they had to relocate. where once there was one 1 invincible superpower there are now several groups ranging from small to large that have started to fill the void creating a more dynamic and varied environment. capital ships are still used however mostly by local powers who have an investment in the politics of the region rather than 'oh look a hel is undocked' and 20 nyxs are teleported from the other side of the map in a matter of minutes.if the effects of jump fatigue are watered down i worry that these regional players will be more likely to get squashed by returning super powers looking to regain peripheral holdings if their main fleets can afford to reach the area again from wherever they are currently deployed.my opinion only, not looking to start an argument. here at least."
"i forgot you were gathering questions. i have one:what are ccp & the csm's thoughts on refining the phoebe travel restrictions with a view to changing the restrictive mechanism from a flat timer to a gameplay or chance-based mechanism?eg: jump a carrier while your jump timer is still active being possible, but having a chance, which increases with the level of the timer of landing you elsewhere in the grid, the system or just in the whole map?eg: when a capital ship is cyno jumped, instead of just *boosh* you appear, you have to navigate your ship through a warp tunnel to the destination - the further away the destination, the longer you have to spend in the tunnel; the higher your fatigue, the more twisty and obstacle-strewn the path is. clipping the edge of the tunnel might damage your hull, offline modules or land you in an expected destination.since many of the objections i see to the travel changes are complaints about \"weaponised boredom\" &c from restrictive timers that can't be mitigated or altered, then changing the mechanism to one that allows the pilot to take a risk and/or affect the outcome with piloting skill, with unexpected outcomes offering unpredictable gameplay scenarios might allieviate these complaints."
"q: with the new sov system would it be possible to have no fatigue using jump bridges in alliance space,also to avoid exploits make it so your sov is based on the constellation and not an individual system,so there cant be random systems across the coalitions to make traveling outside the region you live in easier,q: would it be possible to have jump range restored to previous values and 10 min cool down on jump reactivation flat rate and not ship specific, no stacking.q: would it be possible to have 5ly range with a 5 min reactivation timer not ship specific.q: what did happen to ccp grayscale"
"unexpected i think you mean,also enough with the minigame ideas please"
"my question is:since the phoebe changes went live lowsec has become a far more diverse and interesting environment in which to live, will ccp take these positive changes to lowsec into account when considering further changes to jump fatigue and jump range?"
"as always, i speak for myself, not the csm as a whole. i think the jump changes did what they set out to do. do i think all the numbers are perfect? no, there is always room for refinement and dial turning to tweak it here and there.a complete shift in the mechanics is also worth looking at but not one that results in 'nerf everyone except 'us'' sadly some of the questions are leading to that. i am not sure what you mean by a gameplay mechanic. chance? ooooh, so much room in that word. do you mean a chance of the person missing the destination, even by systems or a constellation (fatigue replaced by 'accuracy' which diminishes unless you allow systems and pilot to re-align) or do you mean a chance of huge fatigue or none at all?as sugar said above, we are collecting and collating the questions this weekend. if you have some the end is near.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"they better! :p"
"i'm sure plenty of people are going to beg for the removal or heavy nerf of the jump fatigue mechanic. that'll just take us back to the problems of force projection, so i'm going to be bold and suggest it needs to go in the other direction:would ccp consider implementing one of manny's earlier suggestions for jump drives, by reducing jump range to 1 system away and removing fatigue altogether?(obviously warp speed would need increasing etc, but imho jump drives create so many issues in eve they're better off being removed)"
"if i personally had to make a suggestion on the matter, i would suggest that ccp (after announcing well beforehand) delete any and all blueprints for them. no more new ones, the existing ones will be the last."
"that's actually not a terrible suggestion.it would give us all even more reason to cheer those blessed lowsec russians that are killing supers left and right."
"first of all - i think jumpfatigue was a great idea. all in all it worked ok with some problems to be solved but it achieved the main goal of reducing the forceprojection of big powerblocks.but i would like to know some details.1. what are your future plans to jump- and titanbridges? should they be similar to each other or fulfill different roles/objectives?2. fatigue reduced the forceprojection of capitals a lot. do you plan to introduce a counterpart to capblobs, because aggressors can't move their own cap fleet that easy? remember that caps are quite common within the memberbase atm. and if you are not able to react to an enemy cap fleet could decide a war.3. do you plan to tweak the jumprange of jumpfreighter? and if yes, do you think local industries will be able to catch up? 4. after the introduction of jumpfatigue some players call caps useless, others still blame them op. what are your opinion about this ? do you think caps are in place or a rebalance (maybe even a redesig) is needed? 5. do you think about relocation of some regions to each other so that you can jump across their borders? this could remove some bottlenecks, where caps musst pass through to enter a region via gate? 6. what are your future plans for supercarriers and titans in eve? should they become a more strategic weapon or be in line with the actual mass of scaps and the wish of their owners to use them in combat. p.s. its late in germany so please be patient with my bad english."
"just one questionjump fatigue are going to disapear and jump range are going back to what it was before phoebe for capitals?"
"my question is:for almost all mechanics a newbe can do a low power version of what a veteran can do. i think jump drives are fundamentally bad for the game because, at some point in your skill training, you get a new and incredible power which a newbe is totally unable to use. this adds to the feeling only veterans can play eve and there's no room for new players. do you agree with me that, in principle, all mechanics should be available to all players, right from day one?thanks"
"are jump freighters and other industrial ships still going to lose their fatigue bonus (or get it reduced) and are jump freighters still planed to have their range reduced"
"what i'm getting at here is that \"jump fatigue\" is a classic example of a ccp mechanic: in a narow mechanical sense, it change the parameters of what can and can't be done. but it doesn't add any game. got a timer? no jumping for you, the end. timer's up? ok you can jump now. as an eve health and safety regulation, it's nicely constructed. as a gameplay mechanism it's a \"to do\" marker."
"do you even think about the players, who have spent years, hundrets of dollars and what ever in the game to get to a certain point , where they can use \"advanced\" mechanics? and you want all the good stuff available for the beginning? that is not the way eve works. if you do not want to wait => buy a char. the castration ccp brought with jump fatigue was basicly a big punch directly in the face of the \"veteran\" players. as is started playing eve my big goal was owning a super or a titan. there was nothing more i wanted to do than throw that thing into a big capital fight. as i reached my goal, guess what?jump fatigue and the castration of jump range is not the way to go. at least not as it is right now."
"i will be able to stream this if no one else is already doing it."
"what are your thoughts on having a timer be per ship and not per character? this would limit force projection but not prevent the player from changing ships and continuing to play the game.other ideas:-resource cost per jump which increases if jumps are done quickly after each other but doesn't prevent you from jumping. perhaps ozone or some other resource.-much shorter timers"
"dont touch anything while it working"
"is that fatigue reduction bonus on jump freighters going to get removed?at the time they said not having it would kill nullsec or something. i look forward to hauling actually being a real part of the game, rather than just invincible teleport ships who never have to leave the dock radius of a station."
"do you have any plans to address the death of solo, nomadic game play? it used to be quite simple to take a carrier, load up a few ships, and move across the universe for new content. now, that capability has been removed and a similar trip takes days. are there any plans to adjust the loss of blops \"quick attack\" capabilities. the idea of blops should be ninja attacks in and out, strike fast, eat cap boosters while you kill your target, and get out. having fatigue after that first jump means finding a safe and sitting and waiting in hostile territory for up to 5 minutes. this seems counter-intuitive to the nature of blops. have you considered having jump fatigue kick in after every second jump or further reducing the jump fatigue reduction to say jf levelsmany people play eve for capital ships. it was the reason that i started playing eve. do you think a 30 day timer is a little excessive? wouldn't capping fatigue at 12, 24, or even 48 hours be just as sufficient? at 24 hours, you still have a 32-minute cooldown. this seems sufficient to prevent force projection while still allowing those of us that love capital ships to use them regularly. does it really make sense to have a game that limits a persons play time to once every 8 or 30 days? it seems like that's a lot less content for other people with players simply logging off to play other games to wait out timers."
"eve was nerfed pretty hard in order to improve new player experience. veterans said \"wtf?\" and canceled subscriptions. new players said \"thank you, this game doesnt fit me\" and left. the faster they try through all of the possible mechanics, the more chance they quit before realizing what eve is _really_ about.and btw, new players can jump, right from day one, in a rookie ship.fixed that for you.that risk-averse behavior of you and the likes of your is the reason we all got that fatigue."
"you can use gates.allowing capitals through the gates was a huge mistake imo, but they did it for the sake of the \"game\", so you should be thankful.allowing the gates turned cyno-jammers from strategic assets into carebears sentinels. with cyno-jammers, dominion sov could still work with a couple of tweaks. without them, we were doomed to have fozzie-sov, where capitals are useless. and this nerf-cascade was triggered so that you can have that \"game\"."
"and i do have a question for ccp.is my rorqual really that fearsome, that you keep it tamed to 5 ly ?"
"i'd just like to point out a general trend here, from what i've been reading. there's a significant trend of 'we don't know what ccp wants or intends with these changes' from the comments here.obviously ccp has intentions. could they perhaps publish them to help us understand what they're aiming for. with no defined objectives, you cannot measure success.as for malcanis' point, a 'you can jump anyway' ability, unless the downsides were so terrible, would just remove the phoebe changes for the larger groups, whilst keeping them for the smaller groups. phoebe, for all its apparent problems, applies equally. changing this, without a very good reason, isn't sensible."
"if only there were some way for a few guys in cheap subcaps to slow the hell out of capital gate travel"
"ok, 8 pages and some good questions and fuel for the roundtable.i am drawing a line here and things after this may or may not be attended to. watch for the soundcloud (the link will be posted in this thread) and perhaps even a twitch stream (not my call)now we sort the questions into general categories and try to find the appropriate alcohol to get the dev to talkthanks again, guys. you kept this civil and fairly easy to work throughmmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"as a remote-repping triage-capable ship with drone bonuses that can carry a tower, hardeners, and a clone bay? it was conceivably a one-ship invasion, actually. especially if the ships it's carrying are battle-ventures."
"for all those people complaining about jump fatigue.consider this:"
"when ccp decided to alter the jump range of capitals and also introduced the fatigue mechanic the primary purpose was to limit force projection and traveling vast distances in a short amount of time. now with the 'new' mechanics this has turned the game into a game of logistics, a game of 'waiting'.the virtual effect of this was to make new eden 'larger again' in terms of travel time and hardship.questions:1) have ccp considered that expanding the universe itself by a factor as well as a reduced fatigue mechanic could have bought the desired effect the game was looking for?2) can ccp show us what the effect the jump range reduction and fatigue mechanics have had on:a) travel/migration patterns.b) universal market activity highsec vs nullsec (before and after the changes)c) player activity after enuring fatigue, e.g they played in sub caps, logged off to wait out timers etc.3) are there any plans to remove jump fatigue for jump bridges?4) since before and after capital travel changes; can we have some stats on capital usage and how the player base has reacted in terms of the use of capitals. secondly, is what the data shows the effect ccp anticipated ?5) the fact that this discussion is taking place would indicate that all is not well with the community and this set of game mechanics. when they were employed into the game was there a back-up plan if it didn't work out or was it full steam ahead and hope for the best approach?whilst in principle i appreciate what the mechanics were trying to do, limit large scale quick capital movement, and in essence that was achieve but it has come at a cost to the playability of the game (personal view).possible options to discuss to reduce the pain: 1) skill to reduce jump fatigue.2) remove jump fatigue on jump bridges3) jump fatigue is dependent on ship mass. therefore larger capitals are penalised more than smaller capitals.4) implants to reduce jump fatigue.thanks in advance."
"1) are there any plans for removing jump fatigue? 2) if jump fatigue is not removed will there be a skill that reduces jump fatigue significantly enough to make capitals viable again and less frustrating to move?3) do you think it's a good things that players have decided it's easier to self destruct capitals than move them?4) can we also have statics on how many capitals have been self destructed since phoebe?at the end of the day eve is a game, not a job, its supposed to be fun. imo jump fatigue needs to be removed or significantly nerfed in order to make eve more enjoyable. it shouldn't be easier to self destruct capitals instead of moving them."
"excellent point! space needs to be more localized like this. the only thing i would like to see about jump fatigue change is it's effect on blops bs and bridges, jump bridges, and maybe jump freighters. jf fatigue isn't so bad tbh."
"<U+043F><U+043E><U+043C> <U+043D> <U+043E><U+043B><U+043E><U+043E><U+043D><U+044F>? <U+044F> <U+043D><U+043F><U+043C> <U+043F><U+043E><U+044B> <U+043F><U+043E> :"
"plex for wis!i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"one form of wis i could get behind would be something similar to what they've done with valkyrie and gunjack. make sure as many of the assets as possible can also be used in other projects with minimal alterations.as a couple of examples how about station interiors that can also be used as building/base interiors for dust 514 or being able to take shots of your customised captains quarters and use them as the background for your character portrait. i think it would help get over the dislike most people have for the idea of any development work being done purely for wis."
"so, the week as passed and what its gonna be?are there any lights on the horizont?guess its better to me to unsub...2 days left for me..."
"you can contract your stuff to me, and i'll make sure it's put to good use blowing stuff up and being blown up."
"blow your own stuff, guess its the right way.you want stuff and isks? there are 2 ways for that...1 - work as i do.2 - buy plexes and sell themits very easy."
"i'm in no need for more stuff. i'm just sad thinking about your stuff not ever getting used properly."
"guess you are needing, otherwise you didnt ask me for it."
"not need - i want you stuff, to blow it up. if you don't give it to anybody, could you please blow it all up and send screenshots of the explosions? that'd be just as good as giving it all away, and way better than having it sit in a station belonging to an unsubbed character. anyway, to keep this on topic, here's a reiteration of some changes i think would benefit everybody:- an activated entosis link self-destructs if it is turned off without having successfully captured a node, reinforced a sov structure, or disables/enable a station service. this allows interceptors to continue to be viable ships for an actual sov attack, and continue to be viable trolls for empty systems, but makes each \"run away\" sovtroll cost the troller at least 30 million isk and requires them to refit somewhere if they want to continue.- a slow passive defense if a particular node/structure isn't under active attack. this would allow defenders to hold sov against trolls without having to entose multiple command nodes, yet wouldn't be any barrier to an actual attacker. say, over two to four days the defender wins nodes by default, depending on adm."
"what next?1 mil , 2 mil , 5 mil , 10 mil and 50mil skill point packages?"
"generally it's been a no. in fact ccp initially intended for everyone to get 2 remaps per year (every 6 months), but the community asked for a reduction.i have a feeling attributes are going, at some point in the future. they do not help new players and hinder specialisation.they should be kept, but to influence another game mechanic and not training speed.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"well, apparently ccp thinks that wh<U+FFFD>s are not designed for players living there, otherwise wormholers haven<U+FFFD>t abandoned their wh<U+FFFD>s and many of them unsub their accounts.wh is not claimable and ccp are not going to change that, however ccp can change some things in there if they want.i lived in one recently and its not profitable, always getting 0 anomalies and tons of wh<U+FFFD>s.anomalys spawn random in the constelation and if you are in one that have low or very low activity on constellation then getting anomalies are going to be a pain in the ass.active wh<U+FFFD>s should get rewarded for their activity and not penalized, the more activity they have, more anomalies should spawn randomly,,,about clockers, yes, something must be done to prevent the afk cloacking, one ship or one structure that will declock the afk cloakers after a giving time (half an hour, 1 hour).in wh you have to always use your dscan, and if you can control all the exits, that way you are not going to get caught easily..."
"take sov in know space where you have an ice belt. put your tcu up , build a station , install wormhole generation upgrade , and from \"your\" system visit wormholes every day. wait, wormhole upgrade is not working. nvm then."
"destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"can or will exceptions be made to jump fatigue as part of the outcomes from this discussion?i would like to see it removed from all sub-cap ships to allow player movement while still limiting capital projection as it was intended. right now to make any kind of movement we have to plan our game sessions hours in advance or log out and play world of warships for a while until the timer runs out. allowing sub-cap movement might increase participation in the current sov mechanics too.having a mechanic that prevents me playing eve makes me think you do not want me playing eve."
"i think jump fatigue should be based on the size of the ship and the distance being jumped.limiting jump bridge networks has just slowed down content.bridging does not equal jumping for black ops or titansif you want to 'fix things' then have small ships dock in carriers and carriers jump. carriers and super carriers should be able to jump sub caps.i don't care for the 5 au distance limitation but as a game i'd think that big ships should jump further than small ships and their fatigue should be greater regardless. so a super carrier is big, it's jump range is far, it's cool down takes a long time.a carrier is medium, it's jump range isn't as far, and it's cool down takes time.a black ops is small, it's jump range is extensive (along the line of a jump freighter) and it's cool down is about the same as a jf.i think titan's should be able to jump (not bridge) across the map. (titan's aren't the sov problem supers were.) if a titan jumps 100 light years and suffers 24 hours of jump fatigue that seems reasonable. simon"
"there is zero difference between bridging and jump bridgessame range and same exact case for power projection"
"nonsense. bridging can be done from within your space into enemy space. jump bridges require the same power to hold both ends. this is not power projection, it's domestic travel.edit to add: what made jump bridges seem like such tools for power projection was the sheer sprawling size of empires - na's rental space dominated the east side of the map the way the combined allianes of the cfc dominated the west side. so yes, people could use what amounted to the equivalent of continent-spanning highway systems to put the pedal down and cross vast distances. but those jump bridge networks relied on sprawling empires that can't exist anymore. you can't hold the space if you don't have the population density, and if there's an entity with enough people to maintain that population density across 50% of the conquerable systems in eve...... game over, man. game over. 5 meters. that's inside the room."
"has ccp considered making some changes to the eve map to mitigate the effects of the phoebe changes? possible changes could include:-shorter spans between certain regions-more npc 0.0 space in/near certain regions"
"1)have ccp considered to make capital ships more different to partially solve current lack of mobility ?why each race cannot have different jump range , and different fatigue generation?what will this change this , if people are using archons or chimeras?for example. why minmatar carrier cannot have 50% increased jump range , and higher fatigue generation , while gallente carrier even bit shorter range , but 50% or more fatigue reduction. each carrier for specific task. why all capitals have to be the same?this way specific carrier can fill specific role.2) (or)why we cannot change way we are jumping ?a) (current range) jump directly to cyno b) (+25% range) jump to system where cyno is located - 50 % chance for warp drive malfunction for 3minutes , unable to cloak because of the effectc) (+75% range) jump to constellation where cyno is located - 75 % chance for warp drive malfunction for 3minutes , unable to cloak because of the effectincreased jump range at grater risk and cost. i hope for more smuggler gates , as this gate connections can solve most of the current mobility issues, provide choke points . they can be easily made non abusable by placing exit gates in station-less npc systems. simple example from my own yard. connecting 2 smuggler gate connections can bring few regions back to life. when you connect paragon soul and stain , and then in the same system create connection to lowsec system you are solving tons of issues that phoebe created for 'far' regions. o4t-z5 <-> lc-1ed<->tirbamnpc systems without stations. esoteria/paragon soul /period basis are more exposed to new groups contesting space. stain is more open for groups wanting to live in npc space. lets move bit more, and create one more gate connection 3l-y9m <-> lc-1edwe are adding the same to tenerifis , impass, omist and feythabolis3 smugglers gates that totally change way you live , and can access in 8 regions the same approach can be used for other areas of null space."
"i might be willing to concede to your idea, on one condition, it only applies to your alliance jump bridgesjump bridges work by standings, so going from deklein to vale in a matter of a few minutes, then bridging to geminate is a bit too much power projection compared to what others have at their disposal, considering only a small portion of that is actual goon controlled space"
"i totally agree in this. jump bridges need to change. this can be done in multiple ways - another possibility. jump bridges don't give you \"blue timer\" , but using jump bridge give you 5 minute \"red timer\".limiting them to one organization have its downsides - as many groups are split to 2 sub alliances. first keeps all mains , and pvp characters, 2nd where you keep your alts ( cynos , jf, pve chars) , academy or friends. so the question is :will ccp consider changing jump bridge mechanic that they don't provide any fatigue (blue timer) , but instead of it generate only reactivation timer?5 minute red timer for jumps within same region , and 15 minutes* of red timer for jump bridges between regions. *to block abuse in power projection."
"would it be possible to tie the capital system mechanic (1 per alliance) to fatigue? aka, no fatigue when bridging/jumping to or from the capital system? or perhaps within 10ly of the capital system?"
"nor is any fleet doing that likely to be a 100% (or even 50%) goon fleet. so what you're really complaining about isn't jump bridges, it's politics."
"the other main difference with jump bridges is they are known, fixed points, and because you can only have one in system, you cannot chain-jump without passing through gates between jump systems (i would argue the cloud ring and fountain residents got more kills out of camping the couple of main jump-bridge links than by doing so anywhere else). if i am in a particular system with a jump bridge and a titan, i can only use the jump bridge to go to the one, specific destination system. the titan can drop me in any system in a 5ly circle. currently the only pro for having a jump bridge is not needing someone to log on a titan alt, whereas titan bridges are flexible in destination, not limited by sov control, less predictable, and faster to set up (you can jump a titan then get him to bridge your ships far faster than you can erect a pos and jump bridge!). giving a little pro or two to the bridge for local movement (again, i fully agree the multi-region super-highways were bad) doesn't seem unfair or unbalanced."
"it is working but it could still be working betterthe \"its not broke don't fix it\" is not a mantra you should follow"
"i'm not sure how easy this would be to do since they could not tie the jump timer to ships using cov ops portals and just had to tie it to all the ships that could use themchanging fatigue based on what was being used to jump doesn't seem to be something ccp can do with ease as well the jump timer is tied to the fatigue timer and ignores the range you are jumping. it is only the fatigue timer that takes jumping into account so if ccp can do this then \o/ and please remove the fatigue bonuse from cov ops/recon and put it onto the cov ops bridge"
"nope, that is a fleet traveling long distances with no drawback, which is power projection pure and simple. by your same token, jumping to beacons should accrue any fatty gay either then"
"malcanis, i have come to expect better out of you.it's impossible to fully separate and parse out the strength of the individual effects of fozziesov vs phoebe. each individual effect plus their interaction best explains the current map and the change from the old one, rather than one effect on it's own. jump fatigue alone does not explain the massive shift in the map, which you do assert.edit:perhaps not intentional, but its also odd that one of the selected maps shows coalitions, and one shows alliances. it would be more fair to show coalitions on both, of which the change is there, but less drastic."
"a lot of people for and against any changes to the jump range/fatigue,so many pros and cons to it depending on were you live in eve.and main objections to changing it is due to power projection,so would it not be a better method of dealing with the power houses and not taking it out on the ships or the ships abilitieswould removal of standings help.disband the power houses and lets get some killing in on all sides allow only one blue and one red the rest of the universe is nuetral long live nbsifurther more as it was just pointed out to me to stop them forming mass alliances cap amounts allowed in corps and alliances to a max of 5000"
"no..please continue to suck it. especially in light of the unprovoked wh nerf. thank you and eabod"
"am i correct in thinking that there was an activity report of some sort that was used as evidence for inactivity?"
"yes, there was the inevitable spreadsheet showing attendance at meetings."
"thank you. maybe i will post that in the petition to the gm lol."
"topic moved to fandi"
"let me stop you there. if you don't know who the current csms are or have any idea what they represent then how do you know that the interests of new players are not already being represented. you are taking anecdotal evidence that you have overheard in your short time in eve and assuming it is fact.you just keep digging yourself deeper don't you? if you can't even be bothered to continue digging to figure out what the csms represent then how can any player of the game trust you to dig and figure out what would actually improve the new player experience.you keep mentioning that you want change but haven't said anything about what sort of change you will actually try to bring.i get it, you've said it's early in the campaign and you haven't built a platform yet. fine. i'd like to assert that you actually start planning something because if you continue making posts like the ones in this thread, nobody is going to take you seriously. that's just the way it is.i'd also like to say that in my opinion you seem like you are just not ready for a position like this. you find out about csm and then the next day consider yourself to be what the game needs to improve? i think that is wildly arrogant, especially considering you continuously assert that new players have no representation without actually doing any research so that you can give us evidence of this. i'm going to tell you now that there are current and past csm members that certainly have new players in their hearts. all of the csm's ideas to improve new player experiences are not necessarily implemented by ccp, remember csm acts as an advising group to ccp, not a controlling body for the direction of the game. i'm going to use a little bit of eve terminology below that you will most certainly hear in your time playing eve if you stick around. you are not a special snowflake. you are not the first extremely young (game-age) and uninformed player to run for csm and you won't be the last. just because you are a new player doesn't mean you know what is best for the new players. to be able to propose solutions to problems you need a deep understanding of the problems that exist and also knowledge of the history of solutions that have been tried. you've already proven that you aren't willing to put in this work with the posts that i quoted. new players don't [necessarily] need a new player to represent them. they need a player that's well-informed of the problems that new players face but also has a deep understanding of the mechanics in this game to be able to provide any sort of useful solution.i'm sorry if you found this post difficult to read or discouraging. i'm not saying you shouldn't run but you need to put in more effort than you've demonstrated in this thread and i personally think you need a bit more time to mature as a player."
"i started playing eve online with the hope of engaging in these huge fleet battles. now, every time i'm trying to interest myself in this, i just get a sweet offer of entosis look-out.the whole fozziesov thing is garbage. the huge power blocs are crumbling and dozens of new alliances are popping up everywhere. and don't get me started on the entosis link, that is a troll's ultimate tool."
"wasn't that exactly what fozziesov was hoping to achieve?"
"yeah, except all of the crumbling happened before aegis. what we have now, is blocs that are even more firmly entrenched, because no one in null with the ability to actually unseat them, cares to mess with this godawful new system. what we do have though, is plenty of \"runawaaaaaay trollololol made you undock\".the only ones actually losing any space were those who were highly overextended, and they're just not even bothering to contest sovlasering on their unused space."
"well, guess its not working as intended, new alliances rise and fall.this is not about pvp, what we see in eve long time ago are only ganking, and ganking is not pvp, pvpeers use to say that they do pvp, but what they do its just ganking, 10 vs 60 or more, that is not pvp, however there are some players who like to do the real pvp, thats why new sov mechanics are not working properly, new alliances can conquer systems but cant hold them, they are going to be hotdropped until they leave, so small entities its just a mirage."
"i know i missed the cutoff but here goes.major problems with phoebe1) effectively removed what many players view as end game material. causing many to unsub.2) made eve a bigger place by reducing the ability to travel, due to less players playing this is a force multiplier for stagnation.major problems with eve as a whole1) new players so far behind an aging playerbase, skillpoints being the biggest and hardest thing to overcome; core skills are the biggest problem with getting newer players to play the game and stick with it. there's well over a year's worth of training for core skills. i define core skills as anything you train that has a passive effect not on a specific item. its a long list of skills and a lot of skillpoints, for my characters i wouldn't care if i got a refund on them, but for lower sp characters they probably would. it is such a massive amount of skillpoints to refund that it should be done @ 1-2mil sp refunded per month and the skill then being a permanent passive or rolled into the base stats of everything it effected. this is to prevent the majority of the playerbase from having ~20+ million unallocated skillpoints.2) fozziesov turned sov warfare into a war of attrition to maintain your sov by opening up the ability for completely un-interested parties to troll sov owners. not only is the concept of the entosis link terrible, the multinode system is bad. this is because it promotes small fights with annoying ships, not real combat. battleships and above have basically been made useless by this. i really don't have a solution for this, other than come to some sort of middle ground between dominion sov and fozziesov. bring back sbu's and structure grinding, but keep the indexes and have them modify the hitpoints/resists of structures and the sbu online time.judging by"
"i missed the cut-off, but this wasn't very well publicised so if you can include these questions, that would be great:once the capital rebalance is done, assuming jump fatigue stays in it's current format, would they consider sp reimbursement for selected capital only skills for those that wanted them? this is due to the fact that when people initially invested in both supercapitals and their supercapital alt, the game was significantly different to what it is today.if jump fatigue was originally introduced to prevent fast and massive escalation of capital fights and this has been achieved, would ccp consider toning down fatique or extending jump range so the tedium of just moving a capital around is lessened? pheobe didn't prevent capital deployment for long term war, it didn't prevent capital use as taxis, it just made it very, very tedious. it went from 20 minutes to get across eve (if you're well oiled) to about 4 days by jumping only.would ccp consider adding back two jump bridges per system if fatigue remains the same as it is now? the fatigue itself would act as a deterrent for overuse. pheobe then fozzie sov drastically changed the nature of fleet warfare, limiting fleets to not only in class but to very specific hulls (your stats may say otherwise but in game you'll notice this clearly). would you consider rebalancing classes of ships to more diversify fleet combat? or is a the predominately risk adverse kiting doctrines we see right now (and since pheobe went live) something ccp actually wants? armoured close range ships and close range combat in general seems to have been killed with pheobe."
"holy autocorrect, batman! :)and there's a case to be made of exactly that: that fleets jumping to beacons aren't projecting power, they're moving around in areas you already hold. in fact, there's more of a case there, because my carrier can't jump to an ally's beacon, no matter what their standings are... rather like entosising. it just doesn't work.don't get me wrong, i'm not saying that jump bridges etc don't make it a lot easier to hold a coalition together - but at this point, i think it should be pretty clear they're not the defining tool for power projection that greyscale seemed to think they were, and his own statements indicated that you were supposed to be able to move around your own space.so why not adm 'em? reduce fatigue for using a jb or jump drive (but not a titan bridge) based on friendly adm. if we're supposed to be able to move around our own space, let us move around our own space."
"i hope jump ranges revert back to the old values some day, with no jump fatigue, because new fozzie sov doesn't favor any capital ships, as capital ships play absolutely no role in taking sov anymore.anyone with noob ship can take any system he wants, no matter how many capital ships defender brings."
"all capital ships would literally reduce your chances of defending to zero vs small none hit-able ships.1)next they will be further reducing ship loss for anything sub capital. this will allow them to reduce capital ships in game by attrition, as people will prefer flying ships they cannot lose. nullsec was an excellent use case test for this customer behavior.2)then, they will make capital ship blueprints hard to research and buy. further reducing capitals in game.3)it's important that we don't panic. ccp has great plans for capitals ships."
"you have discovered ccp's plans!that is great news. now that it's a matter of public information, they will have no choice but to return back to papula's suggestion. original jump ranges and capital ship usability. capital ships matter !"
"i don't know if you know but:5x penalty to entosis link cycle timefor all capitals, that gives you enough time to jump in your capitals with 15 au range and kill them.and try to hit a ceptor with moros if you can."
"i would love to see the fit that lets a moros hit a ceptor?not possible after the nerfs."
"of course it's not possible, that makes dreads obsolete if you wanna kill a ceptor entosisin<U+FFFD>"
"idea for creating more activity in nullsec. tie jump fatigue to the hull. increase industry, increase isk drain, increase market activity, increase hauling.nullsec will be booming with a new economy to compensate for \"jump fatigue\". people cannot afford to buy alts on the char bazaar to compensate for pilot jump fatigue. many also cannot afford to sub alternate accounts. buying new ships once in awhile is far more realistic.idea for increasing fights in nullsec.reduce alliances via unrealistic isk fee. (10 billion a month). maybe remove alliances and coalitions entirely.idea for reducing capital ship usage. continue on the same road. reduce our abilities to use capitals ships. you are only 1 step away from completely removing them.idea for fixing carriers without completely removing them? let ships dock inside carriers. allow carriers to jump with a 15 man fleet from point a to point b and absorb all the jump fatigue. or even better, be immune to jump fatigue. they are called carriers after all."
":) this! i often wondered why they punish players who spent a great deal of isk and over a year of skill training. add up the isk and time spent with those skills, then put in a pile and burn it. *i think a great deal of capital pilots felt the punishment (nerf) was a little severe. yes there was a problem with power projection, not enough of it :)would any military industry nerf their weapons/ships. odd how the game logic is not following rl experiences (in a real sandbox the ships that do not preform as well as others would be upgraded as well) not nerfed."
"..."
"personally i think the idea of entosing the pos in first place to gain access to computer, then hack it to unanchor.of course, i<U+FFFD>m talking about those pos<U+FFFD>s who are just anchored for more then 30 days without being online.pos<U+FFFD>s should be like the containers in space, if you dont open them in a giving time, they blow up, pos<U+FFFD>s should be the same but instead of being removed by time, they should be removed by players.that way players who have left their pos<U+FFFD>s everywhere are going to be more carefull not leaving their assets in space for so long.in hs there are tons of dead pos<U+FFFD>s just beacause people are not use them due the not appealing industry indexes and the prices they have to pay for use their own structures (its just not fair and accpetable for players paying for the structures and then pay for research or build whatever they want, on npc stations thats fine, but not on pos<U+FFFD>s), however leaving their pos<U+FFFD>s in space should have consequences.i know in hs we can always wardec them just for blowing the pos, however i think retrieving those pos<U+FFFD>s is the best way, that makes people get involved and profit at the same time.for that, ccp could create a timer that every player can see when he reach near the pos, when that timer is out, pos can be entosed and then hacked, if the hack fails the pos must be entosed again."
"that is a good suggestion, in conjunction with the new sov changes.though i would still suggest that once the last of any racial type is destroyed, it would return to the game as a unique item, as i had suggested.it may take 10 years to get anywhere near that point, but it could be a good first step."
"my idea to fix sov trolling is two-fold:1. move the notification to the sov holder to earlier in the cycle (half way through, the beginning, whatever).2. increase the cycle time for the initial assault. if you're going to attack someone in a trollceptor, they'll have notice and you'll be a sitting duck for longer. problem solved."
"nah. the defenders should just have pilots in their system. if the system doesn't have pilots in it during its vulnerability, the defenders deserve to lose their system.-- eli (who is happy to hear so many entities upset they can't defend their systems in absentia, and further is happy to hear so many entities find being on-grid with a hostile interceptor boring as they are better suited for living in highsec where they don't have to worry about such things and can go back to their carebearing ways without worry albeit at reduced income levels, not like i am interested in claiming sov for myself but for the health of the game in general i believe it's necessary for those people to be booted out of their current sov playstyles. as i told lucas - i hope their empires crumble to the ground around them.)ps - oh, and regarding supers... if drifter battleships are adjusted so as to rove around sovnull and use entosis links against sov structures, that'd certainly make supers more necessary as even carriers can have difficulty tanking them."
"also known as the death of eve."
"a no from me."
"for those wanting to listen in to the townhall today you can keep track by listening on twitch at"
"recommending sub-caps should have been `upgraded` with jump drives? :d. in honesty though i do agree with you, its fatigue nurf was a bit harsh. maybe a hard cap of 7 days instead of 30. i do however very much like the fact that the fatigue mechanic has caused the collapse of and contraction of most of the pre existing null-blocs. yes, it has had it's intended effect, i am ok with that. now, how do we make jump bridges worth having without going back to having 250 archon blobs moving all across the map in 15mins."
"can we get a link where we can watch later? \"schr<U+FFFD>dinger's missile. i dig it.\" ~ makari aeron"
"usually the sounding board is recorded on ts, then hosted on soundcloud or a direct download service.if it's being streamed on twitch, hopefully that means the stream will be saved and we can just reference that."
"i unfortunately missed this but i sure hope we address a few things. a lot of people seem to want to tackle all the problems now but until some missing pieces are implemented, it is difficult to know for sure how it is best to address.this new system granted it needs adjustment (insert interesting content here) is forcing entities to live in a smaller footprint. that is fine in principle. that said, from a transportation standpoint, jump bridges usage went from crazy high to probably 5-10% of what it was (i am being generous). i would heavily reduce fatigue similar to a jf or remove it entirely. if a large entity owns 1 constellation, who cares if that jb network makes it easy to travel in it?? its a substantial quality of life improvement for resident while having little to no impact on force projection.for capitals, i would either look at reduced fatigue (say 20% less) or same fatigue with increased range (say +2ly). something not too drastic so ccp can evaluate the impact and adjust if needed. they keep flashing that increased iteration speed as an advantage. capitals/force projection is important enough to try and find a better situation without reverting back completely (or maintaining current status quo).once capitals are rebalanced and we have the structures, then we can have a good idea of what additional changes could be needed."
"hello, baki yuku of black legion rental overlord and fc thereof. i have a question for ccp regarding the jump-changes where ccp repeatedly stated moving should not be easy which just seems a bit silly to me because ccp<U+FFFD>s version of <U+FFFD>difficult<U+FFFD> seems to be more time consuming and tedious instead of actual difficulty in any meaning full way. why is it that a game should be <U+FFFD>difficult<U+FFFD> which in ccp words means time consuming to the point where it feels like having a second job? should game not first and foremost be about fun? spending 6-10 hours on a move op is not fun. being more or less forced to destroy or entire dreadnought fleet in venal and having to rebuild them in lowsec because it is economically sound and for the sake of our member<U+FFFD>s sanity to do so is not fun either. you might say well you had the choice between moving them or insuring them and blowing them up to rebuild them in lowsec but it really was not a choice. it was a <U+FFFD>forced<U+FFFD> choice so to speak. it allowed us to preserve the sanity of our members at the expanse of my own."
"as i see it as i listen to the round table. home field advantage should have massive reduced jump fatigue when using jb no matter the ship. \"the lord loosed upon them his fierce anger all of his fury and rage. he dispatched against them a band of avenging angels\" - the scriptures, book ii, apocalypse 10:1 #npclivesmatter #freetheboobs"
"[17:47:46] eve system > xenuria was muted by corbexxeffective until: 2015.08.12 18:17reason: \"shoes\"i didn't even ask about shoes. clearly the csm needs reform to prevent this sort of abuse and over zealous moderation. my voice matters just as much as anybody elses. i didn't even ask about shoes, i didn't ask about anything. i pointed out that the stream was down. reform the csm"
"if there's still a possibility to ask a question:is it possible to generate jumpfatigue only when doing a regional jump e.g. from metropolis -> the forge but jumpes within the same region do not generate fatigue or it gets a bonus of e.g. 50% less fatigue?in my opinion that would still make it hard to move across multiple regions but makes it possible to move faster within the same region and therefore make it easier to generate local (3 regions according to ccp larrikin) content"
"instead of thinking its a game mechanic issue why dont you think about restricting the amount of api data available or data full stop. its crazy that you can go on the map for instance and see every cyno lit in the entire universe, or see all pod kills, or see npc kills. in reality you would never know this information. just keep api data to pure stats not player stats, its silly that all this info is available. there is far too much intel available."
"well it seems that ccp havent answered any question in particular and limit their answers to evasive manouvers.the point is not only the the jump fatigue for itself but the limited ly that capitals can jump.i can understand their concerns, however something should be done regardind for those who only wish to move assets to or from null sec/low sec/high sec, and that part as not been looked as it should.mobility from and to null sec are needed in order to people can move their things, if there is no mobility and the risk are too high, of course nobody will move anything and null sec will be empty in a short matter of time ( it is now in fact).null sec markets never worked as intended, but theres one part of null where null sec market works but that comes with a cost where only a few have become rich(trilionaires) and the others must do what they are told.one of the problems are most of the people dont care about pvp, i can understand them and i can undurstand those who really want to make pvp, but the reallity in eve is other, everytime some group tries to make some pvp they are literally ganked by hotdrops and that is not pvp. that way are demotivating for who are trying to start on pvp, as they always ends on the same way, no matter what they do, its high skilled and trained pvpeers in a large superior numbers against no trained at all new pvpeers.small entities as ccp call the small alliances, are not going to be able to estabilish in null sec, at least for medium or long periods due the anterior and that new sov mechanichs. ccp are convicted that unused systems are the main problem or the renter alliances, but thats not true and they know that, systems are not in use just because they are not providing anything usefull to players as they have done 4 or 5 year ago where all systems are equal and the upgrades will upgrade only that system giving the real benefit to who work on that system.four years ago almost everybody as what are looking for, pvpeers, miners, explorers industrialists, traders etc, now almost anyone are getting what are looking for, and that is very bad for the game.ccp have created and feeded the monster, now they havent any clue on how to dominate that monster and, the worst part of this story is, that said monster have dominated ccp."
"thank you! downloading now.mike's soundcloud isn't working for me"
"thank you mike! :)"
"i am severely disappointed by this \"townhall\" thing. to me it looked like a very feeble attempt at damage control, and yet some people were still not able to put their ego second for once. what i got out of this was \"eve is fine, l2p noobs\". from a fellow player, i can take that. from a dev however, i don't want to hear this."
"thanks for uploading mike! next time please disable the teamspeak sound notifications when recording."
"i didn't want to be automatically negative about this but, it wasn't really a round table, more question and then defensive answering by ccp, without using any specifics. unless they're willing to concede points and actually discuss the topics rather than brush off questions with some very canned responses i.e. \"we might take a look in the future\" or just being plain defensive, then there is little point to ideas like this regardless of the best intentions of the people who set it up."
"already exists.it's called null-sec."
"go back to warcraft,plenty of pve only there"
"new bro<U+FFFD>s for what?hotdrop them until they bleed?gank them until they leave?thats what can expect from the old bro<U+FFFD>s..."
"i don't disagree that you shouldn't be able to keep your space if you aren't using it. but if you set your vulnerability to your prime time, then your solution is to what, always leave some people behind to defend your system if you want to go on roams? make sure you have alts that can be logged in and defend against a lone interceptor?"
"out of curiousity, how would it have been better set up, then?please remember that ccp does not plan on announcing new things at informal q and a sessions. but would you decide to select a small crew of players excluding the larger population as not being worthy of having the floor? exclude anybody who has not fc'd?. who? or maybe it would have been better if we moderated more sternly . . . wander off topic, *shachchack boom* on to the next person.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"it would've been better had ccp come ready to defend and discuss their positions. instead of the \"canned response\". they made some rather belligerent remarks during the recourse of the roundtable that shows a severe bias in their thought process regarding development. ccp fozzie has zero null sec experience as we are all aware.his lack of experience is incredibly evident in the way he discusses the topics brought up during the roundtable. he's lucky ccp (i forgot his name the englishmen) was there to save him by being diplomatic.limiting mobility in a game where the largest problem is stagnation and the biggest threat to sov is an interceptor or other frigate with an entosis link. get your head out of your arse and solve the real problem."
"really? i dont understand you guys one minute its htfu eve is not easy, and secondly oh eve is too hard please make it easy! it seems its only when it makes your game hard its a problem when its someone else then they get trolled to htfu. for too long large nullsec alliances have had it for too easy. even your statement rental overlord states basically as an alliance youre too damn lazy to own your own space and make money from it yourselves. you believe that your numbers and caps should get you out of trouble, well it shouldnt, thats been the issue. probably even harder for bl being a jabber ping alliance! why dont yo uuse your own space for building? why not mine your own minerals to make it more viable? no because you simply cant be arsed and thats what ccp has at last decided to say enough is enough. one minute people want simulation and then when its suits them arcade mode. you want eve to be real but then not. imagine you are really in deep space, in hostile space, do you think it would be easy then? people colonise because they are zillions of miles away from space hubs. you have to do the same, you have to make your home. if you cant do that then perhaps you should not be living in nullsec?jump fatigue solutioneveryone was crying out for this, and the only people whining about it is surprisinig the large null sec alliances with caps that cant move around quickly to hotdrop whoever they want at a moments notice. also solo pilots trying to moving caps, supers and titans. you complain about choke points and being stuck, without someone easily knowing your next move. well low sec have had this problem for years its called pirate gate camps. but for some reason thats ok and people need to figure it out and not be so dumb. go figure.but really should you ever be moving a super or titan alone? without any support? of course not, thats a big target saying suicide and you being completely dumb.but i agree its a little too easy for the person finding you. what i think might be a good change is that you can change the amount you can jump on a slider, which affects the jump fatiqgue factor and of course fuel consumption. for example if you want to jump 6ly then the jump fatique would be higher than if you jumped 5ly. i think this should be up to a maximum of 15ly. so at least you can have more options, not succumb so much to choke points, but still slows down power projection.fozziesov.for too long alliances have been able to own stupid amounts of space and not even live in it, rent it out, use the moons and pretty much sit back and rely on supers to be the i win button, especially when jump fatigue wasnt around. ccp have decided and a great move it is, to say hey if you want space then your going to have to actually live in it, grow it, colonise it, and if you cant well you shouldnt have it. bravo! absolutely the right thing to do.its already had a profound affect, and especially on those large alliances such as nc. bl. etc that are just jabber ping alliances that are not active constantly and their members have got to used to playing the cap game.but its been great for the smaller guys to grab some space and fight over it too. so i have to surprisingly give ccp the thumbs up and this one. its about time.yes there are things that need to improve on fozziesov, its always been ike this in eve, things progress and change as the players feedback and use it more. alliances like xxdeath who are crying because it affects their rental empire and botting need to get with the program and get in the new world or gtfo. im tired of large vet alliances blackmailing ccp, you are not the future of eve, new players are and i think the penny has finally dropped with ccp. even though there is still a lot more work to do around the game to bring more players in. and ccp will need to make some big balls decisions like they recently have to do that. stopping scamming for example is one. however and this maybe controversial i think its time we had a new server instance, sorry but i dont agree with the one server philosophy, we have alliance been around for years that have taken and kept all the resources in eve for many years and left none for anyone else. its not fair on new players or newer players that they will never be able to have control of this. this is why many other mmos have multiple instances so that everyone has equal opportunities. oh an no one would be able to transfer chars or isk to a new server, incase you was wondering.."
"lets look at the reality - if you stick 100 people into a ts channel to discuss something it will turn into a clusterfuck so that isn't a viable proposition for a round table. they'll all start talking, it will go to **** and ts will crash.it's not really about not being worthy, it's about picking players who have both experience and the maturity to hold a discussion, putting forth both their views and that of the wider community but also ccp being more willing to take part in open discussion and talk about potential concepts and ideas. no offence to the csm, but this isn't something the csm should be doing for players either - in the csm right now i see only 3 people experienced in capitals (endie, manfred and shart). why just hold one anyway? hold as many as it takes to get the views in and thrash out the discussion.so how could it be improved? i didn't hear one question to the players saying \"how would you feel if we tried this?\". that is a round table. that would be a great start to improving these.the fear players will misinterpret what they say put out ideas? they need to drop the fear of players misinterpreting what they're saying or jumping to conclusions about that. state at the start it's a discussion, nothing more. otherwise there is simply no point to these types of player interactions. part of the reason that they get players misinterpreting what they say is the lack of interaction, the lack of proper discussion with players. all we get is fozzie and rise on their high horses making statements which make little sense to a good deal of players which then get misinterpreted or they just stone wall and say nothing which infuriates people. it's like they've been in some kind of pr training. bill hicks had some good advice for those types. they can defuse the whole supercap thing right now but having a very open discussion, a proper round table where they clearly state the ideas discussed are not what we're going to do but will be considered. if they don't, it will just get worse and worse. gathering customer - remember, we're customers - feedback in a constructive and useful manner has well developed methodologies which can be used if ccp wanted to adopt those but it does involve question and answers at some point. not 3 canned responses and questions only going one way."
"it was abit like, come join me riding my dead horse :)"
"the absence of new talking points was the problem. there has been continuous feedback ever since phoebe (posts, blogs, reddit, podcasts) so why they thought a specific feedback session now would yield any new fruit is beyond me. the mere act of calling for feedback at this late stage is aggravating because it makes people feel they have been ignored up to now. they should have made a few announcements which gave an indication of what they are thinking of doing beforehand, preferably at a concept level rather than specific figures which people could get bogged down in. if they truly wanted feedback they should have done homework - there was plenty of it around."
"as we're speaking of communication problems, i'd like to express my concern here.it often looks like ccp knew for years that there were some specific problem, but they could not find any solution for it - and thus just let it rot. they have tools like statistics to detect those problems, and they are not biased, so it's not a surprise if ccp and player-base have different view on which are real issues and which are not.but once ccp detects the problem, why dont they come out to forums and say: \"folks, we need some help, could you give us a brainstorm regarding that thing?\" brainstorming with a group of non-experts is a valid approach and why they deprive themselves of that option - i have no idea.i dont have much to prove myself right, and maybe it's just an illusion. but as an example, i remember ccp greyscale wanted to implement unified fuel blocks for poses for quite a while, but didnt know how to make a transition. i bet if he asked it on forums, the solution would've been found the same day. eve players are very inventive ;-)"
"the level of moderation was not the problem. it really is an issue of the wrong people asking the questions. if ccp wants feedback they should be asking us questions. you have to realize that holding a session to get feedback for a mechanic change that has literally stopped people from logging into certain accounts, is going to be contentious. the attitude going in from ccp needed to be immensely more humble and they needed to have far less hubris. i think part of the defensive attitude comes directly from dev's feeling like they are constantly on the defensive. it's pretty terrible to have an event where supposedly the devs are looking for feedback where they outright reject questions large parts of the community have had to ponder, because they are so out of touch they think the question is unreasonable. if this wasn't presented as a question and instead simply as an experience and ccp actually asked follow up questions that could be better. but it's hard to say because as we heard with the bl dread self destruction example, ccp can also have a tendency to just right things off as \"those crazy kids\""
"ccp killing eve so we all go buy valkyrie ....remembers promises of world of darkness....another ccp success,successfully failed.start listening to your fan-base ccp or your going to end up like your games,dyingwill not be purchasing any more of ccp products"
"i actually just thought of a better way to illustrate some of the issues with yesterdays discussion.one of the big major face palm moments i remember for the player base was the assertion by the dev's that phoebe had little effect on the possibilities of something like b-r happening again. ccp fozzie's thesis, was that b-r happened because two large super capital groups were deployed near each other. he then cited the nc./darkness vs imperium conflict in fountain/delve earlier this year as an example that two large super groups can still come together and that we were basically a spark away from another b-r.the problem is he is missing the aspect of the player experience surrounding that fountain/delve deployment. the move ops to and back from that region have shaped players views far more than any fighting that did or didn't happen. moving down was painful and took more than a week. moving back was just as bad and those people who missed the first move op and wound up in the second op on our side, were dropped by bl. anyone who missed both was now faced with the solo move prospect. now argue about the specifics of that all you want. but the very act of many of us going through that move put in serious questions as to whether we would ever want to do that again. the very thing that fozzie is citing as an example, is actually a better example for the players involved as to why phoebe hurts the possibilities of a b-r style fight. now devs can't see the individual experience of players. but stepping back and listening to player feedback might help them see a different side of a scenario that they have already formed an opinion on."
"in the"
"\"there is only one boss. the customer. and he can fire everybody in the company from the chairman on down, simply by spending his money somewhere else.\"-sam waltoni was extremely impressed by how little ccp seemed to appreciated the concerns of the player base yesterday. on top of the demeaning remarks made towards the csm i was also surprised by the arrogance presented by a few members of ccp. i get it though, ccp had the tone of feeling ambushed so instead of providing logical defusing comments they had emotional reactions.hopefully ccp will walk away from this experience motivated knowing that the eve player base still cares about the game and wants change to happen for the better. if we can take anything from this experience it should be that the players were prepared, ccp was not.*an observation: eve has a very high \"average age\" and there are quite a few experienced professional amongst the ranks. when ccp tries to talk down to their player base they should expect what we are seeing now. this is a space sim full of it nerds, the players aren't stupid."
"this is wrong about this statement: one boss means one person vs. the customer in case of eve means maybe about 50k people. and no, 50k people do not share the same view on this matter. i did listen to all of the soundcloud and i could not find any arrogance on behalf of ccp or any dev. could you repeat such a statement?again, i did not hear any answers of ccp, that would imply stupidity of a player."
"everyone hears things differently. i don't expect you to think the same way i do either. what i posted was my opinion to ccp therefore validating my opinion to you is useless."
"in other words zeus cant back his statement up and is trying desperately not to look like a total fool."
"this thread isn't about me so i'm trying to keep you all on topic."
"no large org, alliance or corp, null sec or low sec, that i have ever been in has ever had every single person online and active go on a roam.that normally happened in med sized corps or very small alliances, and on rare occasions.i'm not trying to suggest that that is the rule, just seems to be the norm."
"thanks to new sov, capitals and super capitals are not needed to attack and they don't help to defense sov!so nothing is limiting power projection now except awful implementation of sov game mechanics. it's boring, time consuming, etc. when ccp fix the worst issues (number of beacons, ceptors, etc.), nothing will limit power projection because it's not a big deal to deploy non capital ships to any borders and start dropping sov. groups like pl may not stay there for long time; they could do it for fun; for money, etc. big fail, ccp!"
"i think as long as alliances try to hold more sov than they need, life will continue to suck.the rules of the game have changed and many don't want to adapt to them.many appear to be trying to do the same ol thing under the new rules, and blame everyone except themselves."
"everyone in eve is a bear who needs to adapt or gtfo (unless you happen to be in null sov)"
"does anyone have the statistics that ccp larrikin linked at the end of the discussion?"
"to the discussionccp larrikin started his thread there and the statistics are linked."
"the in game ship browser tool shares the name of a terrorist group. as many players are former and current military i believe this name is inappropriate for in game. as a global company you (ccp) should recognize that many people have fought against and been victims of terrorism throughout the world. i currently have friends who may be deployed to combat this terrorist organization. please consider changing the name of the tool.this was the petition i sent in to ccp devs. they suggested i also post it in this thread."
"in the same vein that 'nowhere in eve is completely safe', as has been stated multiple times by ganking groups in high sec, i am extremely pleased to see this same attitude finally being applied in null sec as well for the sov system - in that it can be attacked by anyone & requires vigilance on the part of the group involved in its defense.perhaps if people had not been as extreme in their views about such, i could be a bit more hesitant about the new inclusion of sovtrolls assaulting without intention of use - however, with the repeated calls for less high sec & more gank options, i see no problems with the system in its current state. you got exactly what you wanted - more risks. the difference is, when it is applied to your own space instead of to others, you now cry foul."
"thank you. not sure why i didn't see it in that thread."
"ccp larrikin wrote:hi space friends,thanks for those that attended the q&a session today, we appreciate those who took the time. we'd like to use this thread as a method of discussing jump fatigue ideas.some of the interesting suggestions that we'd heard and would like to see player opinions on -altering jump ranges sovereignty effects on jump fatigue (e.g. jumping out of/back into capitals reducing jump fatigue) i really think that these two simple changes would make a huge improvement not only for general quality of life in null-sec, but to encourage a bit more content. imagine this: all ships that currently have a 2.5ly base range are bumped up to 3-4ly (6-8ly max). perhaps boost blops to 5ly too. being in your alliance's capital system (or better yet, constellation containing the capital) causes some large benefit to jump fatigue (but not jump cooldown). either it decays much faster, vanishes completely after a fixed time, whatever.now any alliance will have the ability to project force quite quickly around their core systems, but still cannot venture too far across the map. other alliances who currently base in npc null-sec that want to invade, or simply just mess with nearby groups, will have a major incentive to carve out a little nearby system for themselves to gain these benefits also. this in turn is a nice little recipe for conflict.alyxportur wrote:in the"
"just wanted to link this here and try to get some more endorsement."
"take your politically correct **** and go away."
"the trouble with common sense these days, is that it's not all that common. the op is a shining example of what is wrong with the world today.please take your politically correct bs and gtfo.2 points.1. the name was already in use in this game, way before they were labelled with it.2. it's the name of an old egyptian god. one that was deemed to have what you seem to lack, wisdom.so in honour of this occasion, you win this years how low can you go in a post? darwin award.congrats.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"eve's isis predates the use of the word by the media for the middle eastern terror group. (they don't even call themselves that btw.)should ccp also remove the heretic because the daesh are killing shias?"
"locked"
"hey let's look at the map through the filter of the old system instead of looking at it through the new system. just because you don't claim sov over empty systems that don't matter, doesn't mean you don't control them. (only defend space you think is really important - maybe stations or station systems - and then go dunk the other side's jump bridges, cynojammers, poses, pocos and citadels for the bigger fights and/or total domination).england was able to control half the world with worse logistics than you guys currently have. i'm sure you can figure out a way to maintain a large 0.0 empire again. (suck it up and adapt)edit: the purpose of the entosis links ought to be to make it easy for one side to take down afk structures/sov - which probably should not include fueled poses / citadels. also, automated weapons systems that can pwn mwd frigates might want to be implemented."
"that's because britain had massive capital ship superiority, meaning that no one else could have comparable logistics.the british empire is actually an example i used in illustrating how improved communication, logistics and power projection technology increase the maximum possible amount of territory a single group can coherently control."
"i wonder who else has massive cap ship superiority, logistics, and ability to project power across the universe - all the while having enough resources to defend their isolated home island in the upper left corner of europe, err... 0.0?"
"had would be the word you are looking for. not has."
"1.0"
"quit qqing and defend your space. i do not see anyone that has alliances that work crying.ccp great job keep it up.sign, hellion vlad - branded for life!"
"this thread is proof that, even in its incomplete state, fozziesov is a success and what was needed to shake the status quo."
"-1 lost interest at the wall of text."
"i am against the proposals in the petition. i for ccp. we all know why you are against such mechanics. uaxdeath, go to working."
"this is pretty important to be addressed imo as a new player still figuring everything out, i'd probably quit the game after my year or two of skill training's complete if this is really what null has become. i joined up in eve for events like this:"
"+ 1. fozziesov is pain now, we really need some changes."
"u dicha popka prigorela norm."
"fully agree with thisfozziesov is aids and the games worse off for it"
"that's the thing, it hasn't.all of the big sov holders are still the big sov holders.the only difference is that large fights are all but unheard of now, and everyone is so annoyed with the new mechanics, that they aren't even bothering to go back and laser nodes that have been out for over two weeks.so, if by shaken up, you mean hit with a taser and thrown into the trunk, sure."
"1.0"
"stuffz, i can has?"
"my alliance has had some epic fights since fozzie sov came out.really the only people who are complaining about fozzie sov are the huge renter alliances who are losing money.due to fozzie sov my small alliance was able to claim and hold sov for the first time ever!it gives smaller groups a chance to establish themselves.and a message to xxdeathxx, triumvirate and the rest of the renter alliances...if you are unable or unwilling to defend every single system in your huge swaths of territory then you do not deserve to hold them!fozziesov hurts renter alliances and i love it!"
"what's this thing, capturing a system? you guys are fuckin' weird.now if we could address how c5/c6s are gloriously over saturated isk farms...."
"agree"
"to everyone reading this thread, remember that uaxdeath is our new csm member. just think about that as you contemplate the thread and all that it entails."
"i hope you all quit eve.no one cares about us lets go spam jita that will make people rally to our course"
"screw these guys they are literally the worst of the worst who never used their sov and just sucked nullsec dry for their ****** renting empires/rmt schemes. do i care if alot of pl contracts came from xdeath? nope, cuz they almost all universally sucked. sov-based occupancy is the way to go and if these worthless leeches don't like it then they can suck it."
"i kind of cared about this, it was a very well written topic from you ua death, however..all of your dipshit legion guys make me not give a **** about it. 200 of you spamming jita local like a bunch of whining little girls.i hope you guys get trolled 24/7 for ever.if you are losing sov, its because you don't deserve to have it."
"well i didn't bloody well vote for him.to all the bittervets shitting up jita local and trying to force their way- you aren't the majority. you're just the loudest. and maybe it's because i'm not bitter and not a vet yet, but i actually like the new sov. it opens things up for new smaller groups to nick off a small chunk of sov from the old crusty alliances. i'd rather play that game than the one from 6 months ago."
"to be honest, it didn't feel like they made it any worse than it usually is. i don't care much less about their opinion than the usual scam spams."
"sign post 1"
"it appears that you didn't hold sov for very long.i agree with my null sec brother that change is needed.uaxdeath congrats on on your new csm status."
"personally, i approve of fozziesov, it's allows the smaller yet unknown people to actually carry weight and have a chance at owning their own sov in null sec, without having to join or rent the bigger alliance bullies who just want to own everything and rent everything for iskies.quite a number of unknown alliances have started making the eve influence map somewhat interesting.so in actual factfozziesov working as intended"
"but your a bot... you don't get to +1 we made you and we can watch you all die."
"we dont want to kill fozziesov we only want to make it less grindy and more fun. read op post first please before comment."
"fozzie sov makes me not want to log in."
"you made me? dad?"
"the point is that we held it, however fleeting. and we will again. that was impossible under the old mechanics. your \"null brothers\" are leeches and don't deserve the sov that they're crying about."
"and nothing of value was ever lost."
"this is all for content,once the initial greifing is over you will see the map return to is normal state,larger alliances are allowing this to happen so they have some kind of content..feel safe for a while if it makes you happy"
"what you didn't understad is that most of us, me included completely like the idea to let small alliances comes and have their share of null, what we're asking is"
"most of null is not saying the a change was not needed, just that in its current form, fozziesov needs to be revamped. i think if you read through the null sec responses you will find that most would just like the mechanic adjusted. circling a dot while sov lasering it, just isn't fun."
"nice old song cry me a river"
"i think you might be a bit more reasonable than your 'null brothers' who are spamming jita local right now.since we're on the subject, what would you propose instead?"
"+1everything here is obvious to people who have ever fought over sov."
"spamming in jita what is essentially a \"baww i cant rent out systems anymore\" thread sure is helping your cause i'm sure."
"1week ban for all people spamming jita? that would also allow people enough time to clean most of that \"unused\" sov..."
"i miss when we stopped renting, or when we cried that new sov causing us problems renting"
"fire himthis is making eve a joke to play and with all the other kills of caps and other stuff.signed pettion!ccp start making the game fun again! maybe play the actual game!! you nerfs and new additions are not making the game fun or adding new players. missiles don't work, pos lasers cannot hit a slow moving bomber, mines lost, capitals are useless."
"really upset with ccp. better take it out on industrialists."
"signed signed and signedhauler joeanbd fire him to boot the way they killed the use of captital and the jump timerscapitals are dead battleships are dead ccp killed them."
"why dont you nullbears stop bitching about the game and play it, you choose to live in nullsec so man the **** up./rant end"
"a crackerto go with your wine."
"unlike most people here i actually read what uaxdeath wrote. i agree with everything except for the first and last comment. the first solution forces massive capital drops on predetermined areas. the idea of new sov was to get away from these super mega dump fights. the game can't support it.the last (which is the sov transfer), needs work, but it's most widely used use is to transfer sov to renters or for sale. i've never been a fan of renter alliances, sov sales, etc. that doesn't mean it should exist."
"the first two points are a relic of alliances with bloated amounts of space being transitioned out of that state of being. once that shift takes place and their holdings are reduced to systems they use those problems will solve themselves. stop whining.the rest of your points, especially related to the ui and sov transfer, should get looked at."
"looks like russians are ganking in jita as a protest.see, lots of content being created by the new changes. :)"
"small new pilot that has it's second contact to sov (first with the pre-fozziesov): i see some issues with the entosis link itself (trollceptors), but overall i don't see that much of problem of the new sov opposed to the old one. paperwork? what about eve spreadhseet everyone is giggling about? big massive fights? \"lock up that primary there, in 5 minutes you will start shooting it after locked up\". not agreeing 100% on that petition but i agree there are some balances needed here and there. \"opinion of a small pilot that likes fozziesov\""
"stop crying"
"we can't rmt anymore so we're going to go to jita and complain about it."
"spamming jita like that practically screams \"we're weak, we can't handle new sov rules, conquer us!\""
"there are over 3700 alliances in eve.you have been supported by 15.your 0.2% majority really makes me think this is a good investment.if you want 'content', generate it by 'refusing to use super caps' or 'taking gates for december'?really, what are your alliance's campaigns anyway?what's your alliance's current objectives \"pvp\" wise in eve? who is your enemy?you absolutely better know this and have your entire alliance following these objectives or you're not really 'leading an alliance'. you're just a 'congregation'."
"no1 cares about bope, **** off and get out of my alliance kthx"
"feel free to leave and get out of pl then"
"\"it is like a thousand russian rmters screamed in unison and then were silent.\"please bring on the silent bit when your rmt dollars dry up and your morgages and car payments come due."
"it's hilarious how they're in jita wasting isk instead of using their manpower to defend their space. i wonder if anyone's taking advantage of this."
"ccp, you have to trust players!"
"hello russians!fozzy sov is doing exactly what the creators intended it to do which is the following:make it so that a big alliance can not hold a huge amount of empty space.that is exactly what you have been doing for almost the past decade.i live in a wh. when i get a connection to malpias, cobalt edge, the kelevala expans, etherium reach, outer passage, oasa it is completely empty bar a few select systems that have stations - and on the way to said stations there are capsules sitting 300k off a gate that seem to be automated clients / alarm systems to boot.the whole point of fozzy sov was to stop people like you holding so much empty space.the fact that you use this space as your rmt empire is kinda insulting.the fact that you have now gone to jita to protest against fozzie sov purely because it's hurting your rmt empire is even more laughable.we - players outside of your rmt empire welcome fozzie sov!"
"players, you have to trust ccp!"
"pretty sure neither one of those things will ever happen."
"hey rusruswhile you've been crying in jita, we've just had a glorious fight with 470 in local over a station timer.anyway, better luck on monday eh?"
"i'd rather stick my head into a tigers mouth, due to having a better chance of my trust being rewarded"
"ahh natural selection i've missed you"
"lamo someone in isbad with the god of kite calling other corps ****"
"no really i'd say my odds are much better of keeping my head than ccp being competent at game design. it took them 6 years to make dominion sov okay ish, and then came this atrocity."
"new changes are great, but not perfect. it just sounds like these leaderships are complaining more than problem solving still great fights are going on carriers can't blob 40 times a dayre-reading their post, i want to give them credit for saying something other than 'rollback'. would have much rather them put this in a intellectual thinktank suggestion format, rather than a riotous whiney tone. +1 for suggestions"
"+1 to this, fozzie sov is horrible and has wrecked sov. ccp - ask any one of the sov alliances how can you just ignore this. listen to your null sec inhabitants!!"
"+1he is making very valid points and not any outrageous suggestions."
"+1despite people whining that this relates to rental income, the op is right. this system puts null holders on the defensive during vulnerability timers, which undermines the ability to fight for content elsewhere."
"which is why you get to set your vulnerability timer to when you are active. if you are unable to defend your space during the period of time that your alliance is most active means that you do not deserve to live in that space.a lot of the tears being generated here is a direct result of people holding space that they do not have the numbers to defend.the obvious solution is for them to get with the program - cut down on all the empty space that they cannot defend and either fill it with renters that will actively use the system or just relinquish the space - allow randoms to move in then tell said people pay us security money or we'll blap \"your\" space. again - if you cannot defend the space you have laid claim too - you do not deserve to keep it."
"you're missing the point.if you set your timers to when you are most active, all of your guys are sitting in their space, on the off chance someone comes to take it. however, no one's coming to take it, because everyone else is doing the exact same thing. you see the problem here?"
"introduction:every problem you sited is exactly the way it is supposed to work. - it limits mega alliances from controlling vast swathes of space- it allows low sp players to participate in the best part of eve. i agree, there are some minor tweaks needed. conclusion:some xxdeath guy is just mad because he cant keep his slave-ling rental alliances running without doing any real work!@ the op - go fly a kite."
"that's funny, coming from a guy who's alliance head is a signatory.looks like you might be in with the wrong crowd chief."
"the problemas a new player you are granted bonus remaps which is a good help for players to mess around with attributes to enhance their training times.as a semi new player of around 1 year (with no remaps available) i have made the mistake of altering my attributes in a way which greatly reduces my skill points for which i intend to focus, and as a result i have to wait a whole year before i can fix this mistake. for new players this is a problem as we are already at a great disadvantage from veteran players regarding skill points..solutiona simple solution would be to reduce the time for neural remaps to around 3 months, this way the impact of making a bad choice with remaps is reduced significantly.another solution would be to introduce a new skill for neural enhancement which will reduce the regeneration time between remaps per level. .....................please give your thoughts and feedback for this idea?"
"it's asked on a regular basis. so much in fact, there is another thread on this page, with an idea regarding extra remaps.my answer there, is the same to this.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"entosis links should be for dead poses and sov."
"locked. if you want to get the attention of the csm with regards to a particular issue and the thread about said issue is elsewhere, feel free to send them a mail. simply starting an entire topic with simply a link that says basically, \"see other thread\" clogs up the forum."
"while i can appreciate your enthusiasm liam i think you may have been far better off spending the 6 months before csm applications actually open researching the csm and what they do etc as well as networking in game.as it stands you don't really have the understanding of what the csm actually is and what you would be getting yourself into and since you're a new player your chances of getting elected without some pretty intense networking is pretty low.if you still want to run in 6 months then absolutely go for it but maybe sit on it for a while and figure out some stuff first."
"\"if there are two people in a room and both of them agree, then one of them is useless\" - mark twain. thankfully, there are lots of people in our crowd that have different perspectives."
"fair point, though one would expect an alliance head to speak for the whole, or at least the majority. such is why we do not have a signatory, even though many of our members are outspoken critics of this terrible sov iteration."
"even myself i don't live there, but i do agree with what has been spoken to all of fozzieccp. before all hell breaks loose. the way fozzieccp sov is set i agree with the null sec people. the thing is doing so as is will and can be a pain. but they do have the same rights as if you attacked the pos or sov structure. when they have there own personal gates then that speed can be set or reduced depends on ship . what wrong with large fleets fighting is a node totally seperate from the high sec grids which still can be felt needs to be fixed. what was said here i am in total agreement personally. everyone in null sec has there rights to be heard but hey don't ever limit the fun. what ever it is they all want to do!!. if a war comes i can see all of them ganging up on ccp i know the battle would be harsh but ccp realise this they will hunt you down and tear you to shreads. so do you want an all out war? hmm i bet not!!!"
"you obviously either didn't read my post, or lack the capacity to comprehend it. my point was that timezone overlap means active alliance remain in their home systems during vulnerability timers to defend rather than roaming around to fight. everyone being on the defensive during their busiest time zone generates a lack of content. edit: just read further. good to see i wasn't unclear, because gallowmere obviously understood my point."
"1.0"
"i'm out of popcorn! **** sakes, i need more popcorn!!!"
"i just checked some things: 1. on a activly used (and therefore fully upgraded) system, the vulnerable time window is 3hours big (devblog once mentioned 4hours).2. on a fully upgraded system, entosing something takes around 60minutes. 3. according to devblog, everyone in system gets a message + notifcation about the attack. so you don't have to sit all the time and wait to defend these objects. having one or two alt-scouts in system should be far enough to catch the message of an attacker to call back part of the fleet, it doesn't always have to be one big bulk of ships for everything. counternumbers:1. totally unused system (beside moon-mining) takes 10minutes to entose.2. totally unused system has a vulnerable timewindow up to 18hours.\"you didn't need that space anyway\", that's why it's so hard to defend."
"+1 to the original post"
"i like fozzie sovyou guys in 0.0 shouldn't have that much space and power. let smaller alliance's have some too"
"good luck. have you tried to take sov in a standard 'small alliance' in fozziesov. it's not going to happen, unless it's dead, worthless space that isn't worth the time of day contesting."
"add me and my alliance to this petition.but i believe we wont accomplish anything with it.. ccp got what they wanted with this. stable servers."
"no, it's unprotected if you leave it unprotected.frankly i find your list of \"demands\" followed by an \"or else\" to be infantile and utterly unbecoming for a memeber of the csm, even if you were a second choice/step up.start acting like an adult and stop being part of the problem."
"1.0"
"there are some good points, mainly: - entosis should stop a ship or at least shut its prop mods. that would remove most trolls. / important - in game interface where all data is visible at a glance / somewhat important - reducing the number of nodes / possibly important"
"i support this as a provi-block member.since this new sov mechanic there's been few big fights in provi. goons didn't show up to take provi with the new mechanics prove enough that the mechanic is broken and non rewarding. all the large scale battles in eve have come to a halt. normally a hostile fleet would ref a hub/station to get the attention for a huge fight but now all you have to do is send a a small detachment of snipers to take out the ship that ethosis the structure and be done with it. ccp, in the past you made good decisions and bad ones. like the production/research teams, which you guys removed after it being a complete failure. rethink about this sov mechanic because it's killing your players with boredom. eve24news has rarely reports of huge battles since this new sov mechanic and are now reporting that provi is being camped by hotdroppers (which we have always been :3) you're killing the player base with all of this.fozziesovjump fatiguemassive decrease in null to null wormholesstop messing up your player base and listen to them. don't be like the politicians of this world because everyone hates politicians."
"like what? industry, moon harvesting, wh and stuff like that?go ahead, but you own that system only as much as you are willing to defend it and keep it populated.if you don't like troll-ceptors... too bad :)o7"
"the problem with this statement, is that it makes you out to believe that there is this group of underprivileged players who just wish they could take some sov of their own. spoiler alert: there isn't. if there were, we wouldn't be making money hand over fist with the new rental model.this actually appears to be becoming even more true, now that players are seeing just how awful these new sov mechanics are. those who want sov already have it. the rest will continue to be dead systems, because there is no reason for anyone to invest the effort and resources into taking and holding them. trollceptoring is easy. holding space after the fact is still at the whim of anyone bigger who doesn't want them there. your small alliance that can field 50 guys? what do you think would happen if we decided we didn't like you, and rolled through with a few hundred trollceptors?yeah, exactly. nothing has been fixed. it's just been made somehow more mind numbing than structure shoots."
"as a simple minion i support this petition"
"i support this petition.it shows problems, and also solutions for known problems in neraly every 0.0 space.hopfully ccp will hear."
"1.0"
"ccp will not change this, with this sovchange you have to use your brain for once and not throw everything you got at it.this looks like a desperate way to avoid loosing sov. this game needs some fresh air and it wont happen with all the same alliances holding sov...it gets boring. and it does not change by reversing the changes and turn the own sov into a inpenetrable fotress. sov changes were made to see some progress in sov, and this patch is made to make your chair wobble, because currently there is absolutely no progress in sovchanges and thats a stagnation ccp wont allow.obviously this patch scares the hell out of you, which is totally the purpose, and it looks like it works"
"fozzy sov is a great change for eve. most of the space in the drone region have so much unused systems that you cant count them. you dont need that much space. if you want/need it, be prepaire to defend it. but dont whine cos you dont have the numbers or the will power to do many jumps each night to defend systems you dont live in. i dont feel sorry for you at all.big blue blobs is a disease in eve and alliances that hold on to space that they dont live in only feeds this. it stagnates the game.i do also support for ccp to add the tools in game to support fozzy sov changes and not having to relly on other external apps.fozzy sov is the best thing that could have happened to eve. i only wished it was done 5 years ago. eve would have not been this dead end blue garbage thats turned to. this is suppose to be null and most dangerous part in space. in reality you should be at risk of losing space all the time. like any front line, it will always get shelled and must have a no mans land!"
"i have lived in nulsec since 2009. i do not support this petition. do not speak for me.the community which op represents are the worst of the worst when it comes to actual content. they would have ccp revert to dominion sov, which supported and even mandated vast sprawling empires of unused space, with massive fleets of sp-heavy capital ships jumping across the galaxy in minutes.many of the signatory alliances of this petition are historically known to be the worst offenders of botting and rmt. the true intent of this petition is clear for anyone that has played eve online for long enough. they wish a return to farming nulsec with vast armies of bots fueling their alliance coffers and/or their rl bank accounts.so no. i do not and will not ever support this kind of blatantly and obviously self-serving petition and implore ccp to flat out ignore it."
"i don't support this petition.ccp is right in changing the gameplay for some fresh air.their will be more stratetic descisions in defending and attacking sov. i think, all of this big alliances are feared, cause they have to split their strike-forces and have to rationing all the sov-systems to get a greater defense-bonus.that means they have much work. that's them an eyesore.ccp, please hold your course for the sov-changes! i support your decisions!"
"-1screaming self-entitlement. but let's take it down anyway, i love doing that:1) \"critically reduces chances for large scale fights\"you mean like... blue donut? i'd say this is a critical increase compared to blue donut. so no, this is bs.2) \"harassment "
"+1 don't necessarily agree with the suggested changes to correct, but anything is better than the current system."
"that and almost the entirety the list consists of entities that are either hostile to the imperium or russian rmt slum lords.no amount of washing will get the stains off from signing that thing. this all assuming that the petition raises legitimate points and those are few and far between."
"1.0"
"i'm here just to hang out on the threadnought"
"citation needed.first off, ccp rarely release the names of alliances housing bots. secondly, someone botting or rmting in an alliance doesn't mean that alliance itself is responsible for it. i guarantee every moderate to large group has a number of players rmting in it, even your own.at the end of the day, the mechanics they've rolled out are crap and have reduced conflict in null. if the best argument against it you've got is a tinfoil hat theory that they need dominion sov back to bot (which in itself is insane as fewer systems now make more isk and ratting/mining is now a required activity, likely resulting in more botting) then you really won't get very far.correct. wrong. systems are now easier to hold, and while large alliances can hold less total space, they need less as each system supports more people. this system makes it harder to take sov from a larger alliance that wants it, and once it's settled down you'll simply see large alliances using these small alliances that are moving in on the outskirts as farming for pvpers. if you think you'll be able to move a 100 man alliance into a sov system next door to a 10k alliance and not get roflstomped daily, you're having a laugh."
"i support this petition."
"-1 for the reasons given here, and everywhere else i have posted..."
"i created a similar post only to be told that this thread existed so i will voice my opinion here instead.. i agree 100% a simple solution would be to reduce the time for neural remaps to around 3 months, this way the impact of making a bad choice with remaps is reduced significantly.another solution would be to introduce a new skill for neural enhancement which will reduce the regeneration time between remaps per level."
"this seems wildly abusive to anyone with enough cash or isk. i would much rather see the whole remap system scrapped instead!"
"this is internet spaceships. you're gonna get bullied, called names in locals and blown up on reddit if your loss was expensive. that's the way it is and it will never change."
"waaaahhhhhh. this is awesome. i don't even have to log in to drink up some bear tears. finally a forum topic that can fill my appetite for tears on the go. <f0><U+009F><f0><U+009F><U+00AD><f0><U+009F><f0><U+009F><U+00A2><f0><U+009F><U+00A9><f0><U+009F><U+00A8><f0><U+009F><U+00AD><f0><U+009F><U+00B0><f0><U+009F><U+00B1><f0><U+009F><U+00BF><f0><U+009F><U+00B9><f0><U+009F><U+00A7><f0><U+009F><U+00A6>"
"well sense any one can make a petition what they don't like i may as well jump on the train. so i counter petition that the listed names in the collective petition about fozziesov need to drop out of the 100% of the sov they own and the 90% they don't use and only have its because of the terms \"we want to rent it out\" be removed and given to alliance, groups and areas for actly war. not to be a trailer park. this goes to all of drone space an any bodies or other groups of the renters alliance. after they release said space from the the grips of said none use. then their views can actly amount for something. a till then its will be seen as the cries for \"i win button\" and \"i have 100 systems but we only use 5 of them\". comment, suggestions, and debate are welcomed."
"why bother building mining or even doing anything on a pve only server? the market would be saturated , minerals would be worthless. why build ships they won't ever get blown up... this is maybe the worst idea of the year."
"where's the dislike button on this forum?"
"thanks for the advice i will address this is the other post and this can be closed"
"ccp continues to make eve look more beautiful by the day. updating ship models, shaders, asteroid belts, effects, sounds, etc etc. still i miss something i had experienced in the long gone past which made the game for me an amazing place to be in. a living environment. in the past some of the eve ratting missions or anoms had amazing background space tornadoes, gas eruptions, electrical storms, etc"
"my fellow capsulers.i would like to formally announce to you that i am actively running for a position of csm in 2016. like many i would like to see this eve experience grow and continue to enrich our lives with thrills, excitement, and satisfy our lust for exploration. as a representative coming from wormhole space i look forward to being a voice from that community to the council that many feel is unheard. i have been a part of many of the areas of eve over my time here<U+FFFD> nullsec, lowsec, highsec, and wormholes. i have been around since release in may 2003 when it was called a mining simulator, clashed with early dev<U+FFFD>s in the dawning of battleships, burnt out like many and vacationed from space only to return here and there like many love affairs do finding my home in the exciting world of worm holes. like many i want my experience to grow. grow fairly in each environment and for each environment to have a voice to growth moving forward. this compels me to throw in my hat to join in 2016 and be a part of the council. i wish to represent not only wormholer<U+FFFD>s, but give a voice to many that enjoy this game. to work with ccp to help enrich the game from prospective that many are convinced have no voice. in real life i am a professional it consultant and a fantasy author. i have experience working with developers on a day-to-day basis yet understand the enjoyment of the escape of a good story. this is my history, my experience, and reason for putting in my hat for the 2016 council. i believe i would give voice for many and understand the needs for many throughout the eve galaxy. let me be your voice on the counsel and a member that gets involved to help this experience grow. vote for me and i will work diligently to work with ccp and other council members to grow this experience to another level.thank you for your time.xiapathos"
"so let me get this straight.ccp, with the release of fozziesov, managed to 'break' your 'shiny' when it comes to sov. and now you want it either quickly changed (to something startlingly similar to what was in place before) or rolled back until a better iteration is brainstormed and passes the sisi feedback thread sniff test.i say to those at this wailing wall what was suggested to us 'offering rage, tears and great gnashing of teeth' about the icongate complaints.evolve or move on.so it's a little different, when it's your 'shiny' on the line..... >jeven's keyboardist"
"<U+FFFD>a man who does not think for himself does not think at all.<U+FFFD> - oscar wilde i think thats more like it..."
"+1\"i felt a great disturbance in the force, as if hundreds of botters suddenly cried out in terror and were suddenly silenced. i fear something terrible has happened.\"shadow of xxdeathxx hold sov in 242 systems. i'll wager that this allance would struggle"
"and he's such an expert? when was the last time he even logged in and undocked anything?"
"i completely disagree:i would think that the over all effect of trying to defend shouldn't be as one sided as you suggest, the tiring and discouraging task of a long drawn out fleet roam leading no victory would be of great benefit to those who took the effort of trolling in the first place. they would then be able to act on it at a later time once fleet moral is lost or drained. as a pilot who roams nulsec from an outsider's point of view i noticed most groups sov is unused space. hence it taking so long for large groups to defend it. a 6 hour defense fleets is in no way the fault of ccp or of the trolling ship/fleet. you choose to occupy this space you choose the chore of defending it and yes it should be a chore defending other wise there would be no down side to owning so much space. all reward no risk is not the way of life in eve as all pilots learn in the early years.as for wanting large scale engagements: not all alliances can even field such things. this leads to groups no being able to partake in nulsec at all w/o joining one side or an other. we seen how these so called \"epic battles\" effected nulsec as of the past few years. when the majority of nulsec was owned by 2 groups, n3 and cfc coalitions, this did in fact lead to stale nulsec activity. relying on such tactics makes it nearly impossible for any alliance to join, take, hold, and grown in nulsec space with out being forced into said large groups. case in point brave: brave moved to nulsec in the south soon after where forced back out of nulsec by larger groups capable of bullying them to the breaking point.i feel that more changes leading to smaller groups being able to both take and defend sov while taxing larger groups holding large amounts of sov should be encouraged."
"hi guys,i see a lot of you, saying \"i don't support this petition, the mechanic is fine, there is no problems\", others say \"the alliances which say that they agree with this petition are mostly renters like shadow of xxdeathxx\". to the guys who says that i would say, have you tryed defending or attacking a system yet?i did, so i can say if aegissov is a sucess or not. in my opinion this sytem is broken, it's been there for 1 month and i'm already bored. what were the goals of aegis sov? you can read them on this devblog politics by other meansthe list of the goals and why they are failure1st goal: as much as possible, ensure that the process of fighting over a star system is enjoyable and fascinating for all the players involved.the old system was a little boring, you had to shoot a structure and kill it before and after rf. now we have the entosis, if you are an attacker, you wait depending on the adm between 5min (new system taken) and 60mins, first to reinforce the structure and after just to take one node (so if the attacker is the only one to take node, he has to take 10nodes, i let you do the math). the defender don't have to form a fleet, he only has to break the lock of the entosis ship (it'll buy him time) or kill quickly the entosis ship. goal #2: clarify the process of taking, holding and fighting over star systemswith the trollceptor, a lot of people just entosis structure just to **** off the owner, they don't even try to take the sov. with this mechanics you don't really know if you are being attack or not.goal #3: minimize the systemic pressure to bring more people or larger ships than would be required to simply defeat your enemies on the field of battle.with this mechanics, people want to take the node quickly so you just have to bring more alt the get the nodes. people don't split the fleets because you don't know if your ennemie will split his fleet.goal #4: drastically reduce the time and effort required to conquer undefended space.this one is half a success goal #5: provide significant strategic benefits from living in your space.this one was already succeeded, nothing changed.goal #6: spread the largest sovereignty battles over multiple star systems to take advantage of new eden<U+FFFD>s varied geography and to better manage server load.as i said before, you can't split your fleet if the ennemie don't split his fleet.goal #7: any new sovereignty system should be adaptable enough to be rapidly updated and to incorporate future changes to eve.you can't have a perfect system, yes, i agree with that, but you can't release something not finished, if half the idea is good, you have no good idea. your goals are failure, you wanted 0.0 to change, you wanted less empty system, yeah i get it. but any alliance who wants to take 0.0 system has to get others blue alliance to help them. you can't change this fact with this. the best change for the 0.0 was jump fatigue and i don't want to change it (or may be for the jump freighter or black ops). thanks to phoebe conflicts are more local. how many system are rf and not taken? how many sytem are now unclaimed? here is the tenerifis map, it'll give you an idea"
"\"it's literally too much to expect us to undock a rlml caracal and a couple of tackle frigates to defend our sov during our prime\""
"undock?but that's boring."
"\"who moved my cheese!\""
"the fact that you are even duelling within docking range speaks volumes about you, whether you big yourself up as one of the 'last honourable knights of eve' or not. never mind that this is highsec, you should at the very least drop a can 150km or so from the station exit, and set up your own 'house of fun'."
"has it been looked at on how much of this jump fatigue is making the cost of plex stay at it's current rate?how about the flow of mins , materials and items in and out of null?"
"there are lots of timers in their space. feel free to go take it from them. nothing is stopping you."
"get off your lazy scrub arse and take some sov then"
"nah, you have to be in an alliance to mess with sov..."
"go play wow"
"closed at op's request and the fact that this thread's content already exists."
"unclaimed, or effectively unclaimed systems are not an indication of failure. the idea that every system should be inarguably owned is a toxic holdover from the dominion/pre-phoebe era. opportunities for ambitious homesteaders are a good thing.as for the map, yes let's look at the map shall we?beforeafter"
"signed."
"so before we coloured the map in 4 colours for cfc, nc, provi and \"neutral\", and after we colour in the map for each alliance. that way it looks like huge amounts have changed. that about right?unclaimed systems are a sign that sov is not worth taking, to the point that people leave systems they could just walk in and claim uncontested. it's because most people don't want sov, they just don't want coalitions to have it either."
"why are you still in a 0.0 alliance?"
"op's posts are cyberbullying the entire eve community. ban op."
"if only there was a way to export & import your entire ui..."
"suggestion:completely remove jump fatigue when jumping between systems that have sovereignty held in your alliance.we all know the issues surrounding jf so i won't delve into them again. implementing my suggestion will still stop capital fleets jumping to the other side of eve but it will vastly improve the life of living in the home region of your alliance.what are peoples thoughts?"
"easily abuseable, badly thought out and no consideration given to possible consequences.next."
"so i just own one system on the edge of jump range in my coalition's space, and one more system on the edge on the far side of that...i hop quickly out of 'my space' and into the tiny islands that are set up in my coalition's controlled space. i do this until i get to where i want to be. this is a bad idea. further, it belongs in fandi. stop fouling up the assembly hall with off-topic threads."
"because i like(d) null and hold out hope ccp won't destroy it in the long run. nice dodge though bro."
"well i ask because apprently you're so unfamiliar with the state of 0.0 that you're unaware that the sov map is vastly more heterogenous than it was."
"i'd say \"vastly\" is an overstatement. some of the russian borderland have been hacked up and a couple of groups have pulled out of null, but the changes haven;t been that big. my comment however was simply that you've taken 2 different style of map and compared them. why not use the same type of map if you want to get across how much the landscape has changed?"
"if you could link a more up to date bloc map i'd be delighted to use it."
"i don't have such a map. if you don't either, then it's probably better to simply avoid suggesting that looking at 2 different types of map shows the change. maybe at some point someone that cares enough about such things will roll out a decent analysis of the changes."
"there you go:"
"thanks, got another one with the same groupings from last year?doesn't it make you wonder though why the space is so worthless that nobody wants to claim it? i can't stick a broken fridge outside my house for more than 10 minutes before someone's claimed it. how badly balanced do null systems need to be for them to be so unwanted?"
"no. the map is generated on a daily basis. i don't know if past maps are stored somewhere.i like that analogy. the reason why someone takes the fridge is because it is obviously worthless to you but not to them. would they wrestle a pitbull for it? no. but if its previous owner doesn't want it anymore, they might as well take it and see if they can find a use for it somehow. i would love the new mechanic to lead to that kind of thing in terms of 0.0 space."
"they are stored on eve files"
"that's a shame.that would be nice. unfortunately most sov space is worth about as much as a low class wormhole. not the type of thing a passer by is likely to say \"ooh, this is nice!\""
"if space is so worthless how come any of it is claimed?"
"it's not that it's completely useless, it's that it's low value. in massive quantities it's ok. to most people though taking a few systems is worth less than just moving into a wh or living in npc null, and none of it is really worth massive battles these days, hence the lack of real conflict in null. it'd be nice if there were good reasons to fight over it."
"acutally, k898 was right. they are stored on eve files. here's the one from exactly one year ago."
"dejavu, i created the exact same thread a year ago ;)found it:"
"when will it be out ?will it be nda-ed ?is it a top-down document, ccp >- csm ?does the prologue have any metaphysics about new eden society ?(please hire tony gonzales to write that in the )source:"
"this thread has been moved to the market discussions board."
"i wonder if we added to those maps the headcount/system and relationship between that and crying about the current system...."
"with 1635 members, an alliance holds 234 sovereignty.. that is the problem.. and we all hope fozziesov will fix it.. none should stop trying to make new eden better space for all.."
"little kid visit his dad, hey dad may i go outside ? sure, but just be carefull son, there are strangers on the street and i'm not always arround."
"right after fanfest as usual.fanfest was from march 19th to 21st this year."
"never! we're still standing up! my feet hurt!(pretty much just after fanfest. it takes a little time to get everything sorted out.)"
"thanks guys. this is for some \"content\" creation.i did search for this date but didn't find a firm reference.in march of 2015 i barely understood what a carebear was, let alone, make time to follow the larger eve community.steve,i haven't even built mine yet but maybe the victorieux has, or can be retrofitted to have, a chaise lounge befitting a csm member?"
"what's ok about \"massive quantities\", given that the primary wealth generators in sov 0.0 are the anomalies, which improve in quality and quantity as the indexes are increased? for an alliance the size of init., 2 constellations would be ample - we actually have more space than we need sharing tenal with rzr. when citadels are introduced, allowing multiple structures per system, then the incentive to consolidate will increase even further.aint mean we won't fight for what we have though. we might even use our super special space-magic power of undocking and having fun.the common theme i see running through this thread (and others like it) is people complaining about having a bad time when they try and engage with aegis sov as if it were dominion sov. you've put more effort into telling everyone you're not having fun trying to do things the old way in a new system than i've put into actually having fun in it. and i'm having plenty of fun tyvm.your cheese has been moved. it's time to cast aside old assumptions about \"the right way\" to do things and take a fresh look."
"another day, another couple of fun fights in sov space. how's sitting in station crying working out for you?"
"i would say make it a station service, similar to the security offices used to repair sec status. it would be a much needed money sink."
"i always hated these kind of people that say we have to stop bullying. honestly you never going to stop bullying from happening. it's by far, more effective to teach somebody to stand up for themselves. then it is to put a temporary stop to one bully. because if you stop some from bullying a 'victim'. you may stop that one bully. but down the road your not going to be there to stop the \"******* boss\" or the \"prick of a co-worker\". if you teach them to stand up to a bully. they can handle their own **** down the road. when your not there to do it for them. #deletetheweak"
"sorry if this is covered elsewhere if so please refer it to me. i would like to ask why there is no non pvp toggle for ships that are not pvp capable or for people that don't want to do pvp or areas designated for pvp. i have been killed several times in a mining ship and an exploration ship then told to stop playing miners and explorers and learn to pvp. i have banned this game in my home, game shop and meeting soon with other shops in area to implement the same. when someone flying a battle ship brags about killing a lone miner this game is no longer fun or playable. the gm's ive talked to gave me the ships back but the problem still remains even though my ships was returned to me what happens to the person responsible for attacking me and what is to stop others from attacking miners trying to play the game. he's still bragging about killing a miner on his so called kill board why is killing a miner on kill boards to begin with? the problem is still there, there needs to be non pvp toggle flags to stop people who don't want to participate in pvp being forced into pvp or designated pvp areas that people know there going into. swtor has a pvp toggle flag for pvp also world of warcraft has a pvp system if there asked to participate in pvp through a request, why is there no pvp toggle flag for people in this game? i've been a loyal subscriber to ddo since alpha testing and still a subscriber to everquest 1 and 2 and world of warcraft. i love supporting games and recommend them to others in my area on game nites and weekends. this is an awesome game i am retired stay at home play for 16-20 hours at a time. i am also advising the parents in our area to not let kids in area play this game, when people can fly into any area and kill others for no reason that's wrong. there is about 26 people who will not subscribe to this game in my area now cause of this issue. please let me know how this is going to be resolved."
"this is a pvp game. if you can't take that, go back to hello kitty online or whereverit is you came from.frankly, you shouldn't be getting ships back from gms. you should probably learn to fit the things instead of crying on the forums about losing them."
"it will not be resolved to your satisfaction. eve is a 12+ year old sandbox game that features full-time pvp at the core of its design. the new pilot faq goes into detail, but the game is a single universe competitive sandbox game quite unlike the traditional mmo's that you are used to. honestly, if you can't handle losing ships to other players, this game is not for you. ships are lost all the time and should be treated as expendable. you can make yourself pretty safe, especially in highsec, but other players are going to try to stop you or take your stuff from time-to-time. that is just how the game has been designed. if you think you can learn to handle that, new eden is quite the experience. if not, there is no shame is choosing a game that more suits your sensibilities. regardless of what you choose, you should work harder to treat your fellow gamers with more respect than you have in the past. they are just other people playing a video game for fun, not punching bags to vent your rage at."
"well i have moved on from eve and this game will not be played again in my home or game shop till pvp toggle is implemented. i have treated gamers with respect that is earned not given, code needs to be banned from this game for killing miners like i told them then i cancelled 30 subs for kids in my store that i paid for before the 30 days was up. now ccp lost 31 customers counting me cause of this. i have made ships and fitted them and given them away to new players and got bounties placed on me for it i asked a reasonable question. 4 days left on my sub and i will not support this game any longer. like you said if i don't like it move on fyi i have moved on i only asked the dev to enhance the game to bring back new players and what they are looking for instead of 5000 players online to a max of 26,000 there could be alot more players but i see my time is wasted asking intelligent people for a response i guess when it gets down to less than 5000 players on at a time maybe someone will fix this game instead a rage about its a pvp game if you don't like it quit. best of luck with getting new palyers to stay."
"it will not. why would ccp do this after 12+ years? because you feel entitled to play the game in way completely different from how it was designed? that's like showing up at a baseball game and demanding the umpire to turn the game into a homerun derby just because you do not like to take the field or be scored upon. it is not going to happen.don't let the the door hit your bottom on the way out."
"nice source:"
"i cannot speak to what may or may not be under active discussion because of the those pesky three letters (nda) but i will say that i have been begging for the white paper to be a living document rather than a historical artifact.m"
"necronomicon"
"the more you have, the easier it is to defend. if you're fully utilising your space, then 100 people working in 2 systems will be more efficient that 2 sets of 50 in one each. scaled up that continues, so when you hold a couple of constellations and fully utilise it, the effort to defend it balances out better with the rewards from it.most people aren't having fun even when playing it as aegis sov. mate... it's a mining laser and a structure. that's what the bulk of the mechanic is. add to that the most efficient way of attacking sov is by using lots of uncatchable ships, and it's a textbook example of a bad mechanic. the mechanic should be engaging and fun for all parties, but it's not. clearly there are plenty of groups of people who see it as nothing but a chore to play whack-a-mole to defend systems.congratulations. i guess if ccps aim was \"make malcanis happy while clearly the vast majority of null players find the new mechanics boring as sin\" then it's a win. i'm not generally docked, we still have fights, much less than normal (dotlan stats show down 16% afaik) but less doesn't mean none, and neither am i crying, this is called \"providing feedback on game mechanics\". you're not so good at trolling these days bro."
"yes. have your space and live in it and you will reap the rewards. watching the tournament yesterday, i saw ads aimed at carebears that offered space to pve in. unsurprisingly, those ads were made by the imperium as they seem to have understood how this new sov mechanic works and are adapting. more people in 0.0 gives more targets to roaming gangs, makes more need for defensive gangs, makes more pvp content. i hope, we can agree that that's a good thing.that too is a good thing. it should require effort to defend your space so that you only defend your space if you acutally need it. by the way. fighting for sov has only ever been interesting if someone fights back. this has not changed since the servers booted up for the first time and it will not change until the day ccp pulls the plug.reading some of the posts in this thread, i wonder if anyone has actually bothered to watch this:"
"yes, it should require effort, but it should be entertaining. that's the goal of fozziesov. and that's where it falls down. for most people involved it's not very fun.you may want to just accept crappy game mechanics, many people would rather provide feedback and have them turned into good game mechanics. it's why we attend roundtables and the like to provide feedback on the game and it's why the csm exists. fozziesov could be good and fun for all, but currently it's not."
"be honest. have you watched the video?"
"nope. i was in the audience."
"that must have been awesome. i admit, i am a bit jealous. reading through some of the things you posted, i would have never guessed."
"yeah, was fun what that i've posted has made you think that?the way i see it, the goals have always been:1. make sov entertaining for all players involved. - this i feel has failed. most players attacking sov are doing so to troll. they don't want sov, they just want to waste people's time by forcing them to chase them about. it's very amusing i'm sure for the people doing the trolling, but it's the equivalent of wider spread blueballing for defenders. in addition, when you are taking or defending sov properly, most of the fleet is sitting about waiting while the \"entosis crew\" run around doing stuff. because entosis doesn't benefit from more players, if you bring 20 players, most of them have nothing to do if there's no engagement.- for this i suggest increasing the minimum size of ship for fitting an entosis. bc would be a good choice. how to get the whole fleet involved in capture, i don't know. the system seems to be inherently boring if you don't get an engagement. perhaps a much more rapid takeover or defense of space if completely uncontested would be good.2. make the system to contest sov simpler.- this has been a success. the only thing i'd suggest here is more in-game info as info available on crest should always be available in game so that everyone can access it with ease.3. ensure the system directs you to bring fleets that defeat your enemy and measures success on control of the grid. - this is partially working, but with evasion fit ships, you can just spread out over the system into small fleets who couldn't actually control the grid, hoping that one or two of them get through. as you successfully trigger timers, you make it so that the defender has even more locations to go to to reset the systems and it continues to grow from there. there will likely be a large scale demonstration of why this is bad soon. empty systems, sure, they should be sure easy to take, but occupied systems shouldn't be under threat from tiny evasion fit fleets. those types of ships should remain primarily for scouting and intercepting a target for a fleet, not to actually run the takeover.- for this i suggest letting systems naturally reset if aggressors don;t continue the takeover of sov, and requiring multiple entosis links to get a sov capture started with a higher adm."
"allow multiple clone jumps daily if done from the same station or system.i think a change like this would make a great many of us pilots happy while at the same time not skirting a system that was put in place primarily to prevent players from getting around the galaxy too easily.any downsides to this anyone can think of?"
"as a player that only had his jump clones in two systems next to each other, i can agree. i didn't use them to travel, it was dependant on what ship i was requested to use.this has been requested before a few times, but the clone system seems to have issues with the amount of clones at a station. i guess it's old code. as far as downsides are concerned, there could well be some. i'm not seeing many atm.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"the main downside is that it completely circumvents the choice you are suppose to make between the advantages of each clone. it allows you to benefit from combat enhancing bonus while undocked and learning enhancement bonuses (or industry bonus ) when docked essentially at the same time. you get to have your cake and eat it too - you are suppose to choose enhanced training or enhanced combat effectiveness. i think it would be better to at least remove learning implants completely before implementing this otherwise you just make it mandatory to hop to your training clone every time before you log off reducing the mechanic to pointless busywork. but if implants were all just combat/resource gathering buffs i see no reason why you shouldn't be able to hop from a frigate clone to bs clone, or a armour clone to a shield clone, or a mining to a combat clone in the same station. it would reduce the consequence of the choice a little (you can fly both frigates and battleships with bonuses on the same day), but wouldn't really break anything and might encourage people to undock. i am sort of on the fence. i think though ccp won't touch it in any case until they revisit the attribute and learning implant situation."
"well i did consider the whole learning implant and training situation, but dismissed it. mostly due to ccp's current view on attributes and their removal. chances are more than ever, that they'll end up going. although by no means a certainty.while i do see the point made in regards to having your cake and eating it, i have another view to it. sure some will change their clones and move into another for combat pvp. but many like me will be jumping into ones with pirate implants. like those pilots, i would like to utilise the clones i have already. i want to risk them in pvp, i want to use them to their full ability. but ship choice is often made, because of what clone i'm in. a rather strange mechanic to have in that regard.i don't think the cost risk is an issue in this situation, as pirate implants and the hardwirings that tend to come with have a higher cost. sure some may jump into clones with no implants, but will this only occur with learning implants? some use learning implants as an excuse not to pvp, but i've never believed that reasoning. they'll find some other reason not to anyway, even if this change happened.so yes while the training cake is there, i agree it's an issue. but if ccp decide to remove attributes and give everyone a flat rate, then it may be a different story.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"this is obviously a troll. >.>#deletetheweak"
"can i have your stuff?"
"agreed.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"still, as a final parting shot:"
"locked."
"the risk:reward factor is adequately served by undocking."
"but once moved to your base, you would never have to undock in your learning clone and yet still benefit from it whenever you were logged off or even in station. and also benefit from your combat clone all the time when you undock. at least now, you have to choose one or the other. i am not saying that doesn't have it's own problems, but allowing you to switch between them at will removes the trade-off between the two choices. you get full combat effectiveness with no (ok, minimal while undocked) loss in training bonus."
"submitted by: corevamore bolmarapart one. additional parts/details follow this postthis is a proposal for a new type of sov, isov, that builds on the current system, encompass upcoming game additions while reducing overall complexity, enhancing stability of long term held systems, yet provides many opportunities for conflict. pew pew!overviewphilosophy: a single battle doesn't win the war, occupational ownership does!it is easy to enter anothers territory, shoot stuff up, and run away. however to gain the respect of the locals you need to secure the territory, develop it, populate it, and make that territory your own. the roman empire was built in such a way. this helps to ensure that both pvp and industrial players are both catered for, enhancing game play, and boosting eve subscriber numbers.what is being added?an influence based system that determines who owns a system.what is being enhanced?the strategic/military/industry indexes were steps in the right direction. the isov system, based on influence, both enhances grading of a system and replaces some of it.what is being removed?the entosis link activated 'spawn system' <U+FFFD> it is a video game mechanic, not something that has any correlation with logic nor reality in space. it jars against the reality that is eve and is a dumb contest point just to provide pew pew battle action. lets fight over sensible things ;)the influence based sov system, isov.influence in a solar system is determined by:the number of structures in a systemthe types of structures in a systemhow much is mined in a systemhow many and types of npc's are killed in a systemhow much is manufactured in a systemhow much is researched in a system (blueprints)how much is sold in a systemthe number/type/value of ships destroyed in a systemthe alignment/orientation of nearby systemsall of the above will tally to a total for each competing alliance in that system over a certain time frame, which i am proposing is 1 week in length.who wins influence control, isov, of the system is determined by adding all the influence points gained by each alliance that has had activity in the system for that week. this is the base influence point number, bipn. then nearby system boosting (nsb) bonuses are applied (see below). the winner must have a minimum margin of 20% greater than the second placed alliance otherwise the system officially becomes contested. how to calculate influence points on game items?this should be calculated once by ccp, and just like manufacturing, an items influence point value should be related to its material inputs, and possibly a small percentage multiplier for faction, t2 and t3 variations. once calculated the items influence value need not be changed unless an item is rebalanced.influence points: more detailstructures (type/size/number)ownership is occupancy!each structure in space is worth a certain number of influence points, 10% of which are added to the alliance influence point tally every hour. the larger/more expensive the structure the more points it earns. this ensures that long term structure holding is rewarded.naturally more structures means more points, which should in theory mean more local activity to support them, fuel, transport, usage etc.special & new structure: territory claim unit v2 (tcu)in the isov system:the tcu gains all the functions of an ihubthe tcu and can be placed in any system! the tcu boosts the influence points generated in the system by 30% for the relative alliance. the tcu will only boost when a monthly (28 day) payment is made into it. having the new type of tcu in a system does not ensure system ownership however.only one tcu per alliance can be placed in a system.the maximum number of tcu's that any alliance can deploy is limited to a certain number, like 20. this should ensure a more level playing field between alliances. however this does not prohibit alliances working together to form more powerful groups. or the 'influence domino' effect occuring <U+FFFD> see below. (isov dominoes?)miningmining will also be awarded influence points which is determined by the volume, in m3, of ore mined in a system.npc killseach npc type will be awarded an influence point value based on the ship type and a difficulty multiplier, and will be awarded to the alliance that killed them.manufacturing/research - (bpo's/bpc's etc)each item in eve has an influence points value. every time an item is manufactured/researched/copied influence points are allocated to the respective alliances weekly influence point tally.saleseach item in eve has an influence points value. whenever an item is sold the influence points associated with that item will be added to the respective alliances influence point weekly tally. to reduce the chance of 'item trade influence boosting manipulation<U+FFFD>, i.e selling items back and forth repeatedly several times between two different entities to artificially drive up influence points earned an item will only generate points on the initial sale and on the following 2 trades of it. after that point no more influence points will be generated.destroyed ships/structures/items (pew pew!)as each item in eve has influence points associated with it whenever an item is destroyed then the alliance that scored the final blow will be awarded the total influence points for that kill.special note: influence points will not be awarded for items owned by an alliance which are destroyed by that same alliance.please continue to next post"
"proposal - part 2nearby systems boosting, nsb<U+FFFD>what is happening next door<U+FFFD> has always influenced things, eve shouldn't be any different. we will call this nearby system boosting, nsb for short.at the end of the 7 day time period all the influence points are added up for the alliances competing in a system, this is the base influence point number, bipn.alliances competing in the solar system will have 20% of the bipn for all systems 1 system away added to their total. (assuming the alliance also has influence points generated in those systems.)then solar systems 2 systems away will have 10% of the bipn added to the tally, once again assuming the alliance also has influence points generated in those systems.this final influence total for competing alliances in a system determines the isov ownership for the next week.note: if there is more than one way to get to a nearby system the shortest number of jumps is used to consider if its a system that is one, two, or more systems away.what happens to the entosis link?it survives by allowing small numbers of attackers to disable structure functions for 24 hours, potentially causing major disruption to things like production, and hence influence point generation. structure functions can also be destroyed by typical grinding, when a station function goes into reinforce mode then the 24 hours of the reinforce mode is also the 24 hours of disruption to that function.can the entosis link still flip a station? yes, but only once all the functions of a station have been disabled/destroyed. once the station has exited its reinforced timer without being fixed it will enter freeport mode and no longer be owned by anyone. it can however be taken over from freeport mode by the existing system owner, or the original owner simply by fueling it <U+FFFD> its up for grabs! after fueling it then the rest of the station functions will become available to the new system. this allows large station structures that were once owned by others to forcefully change hands. naturally fighting for ones station, repairing/restarting reinforced functions and station is naturally the way to stop a station being pirated.this is also a way for an alliance to take over abandoned structures.expected game play from isov changes.influence will be amplified and spread greatly within clusters of nearby cross connected systems; conversely a bridge/chain of systems will be more susceptible to influence changes. this will create islands/castles of power based around a central system that has the greatest influence, reflected by its greater occupancy, use, development and fighting ability.outer regions / borderlands between isov holders may fall to those who do not even hold a tcu in that system! (domino effect and influence in action). this effect may also allow an alliance to hold more systems than the number of tcu's it is allowed to deploy!guerrilla warfare to rise!structures can be deployed anywhere! in your territory or others! this also means structures intruding on 'your territory' is naturally fair game to be attacked by either disabling functions on the the structure, and/or by destroying its functions, and lastly the structure itself. you might consider the next system over as your territory too, have at it! pew pew!large scale engagements.large fleets comprising several alliances in a power block will naturally still occur, potentially leaving huge damage in their wake. will the battles make them the ultimate pinnacle, generating so many influence points that the devastated system becomes the attackers new province, or, will those regions rebuild, gain back control, then fight back to show the intruders who is boss?by stealthindustrial power is not just in the ships built and isk earned but by the reputation and influence generated. (how can one not watch in awe as 50 dreadnoughts roll off the production line?) under isov it is possible that industrial supremacy could flip system ownership as easily as a big fleet battle. or like modern corporations asserting their influence around the world today. naturally industry and large fleet pew pew go together, like peas in a pod. under isov they are now two equal peas. planting a flagand yet isov does not stop small alliances from gaining a foothold on the edges of a partners space, or in the void that a contested system might create, or along one of the stringy star system paths linking great power houses together. flip <U+FFFD> flop systemsa flip-flop system might also arise on the edges of two or more power blocks. these may simply flip-flop between the two or more neighbouring alliance isov holders. this can naturally be stopped by an alliance occupying the system and putting its own stamp on it!viking roaming!this is where a pvp fleet causes so much damage in a system that they win isov for seven days, and taxes the residents for the privileged of being in their new province! damn you vikings!also, something for ccp. ccp dont be worried that tcu's are limited, and that some systems may not even have a tcu in it! be content that some systems, especially contested ones, could have several tcu's in it! the overall tcu count could in fact be more than today.the benefits of isov ownership.when an alliance has isov of a system then a global tax rate will be applied by that alliance to all transactions, pi, etc, across all systems that the alliance has isov control over. this can be particularly profitable in a system that has multiple alliances vying for control of it.lastly, the devil is in the details! the above is simply an overview of a general direction and mechanic that i believe will suit everyone in eve, including ccp.i will be sending it to ccp, the forum, and several csm's to nut out if this is indeed something that can work for all.cheerscorevamore bolmara."
"given that they've just revamped sov, which i presume took a lot of man hours, just how likely on a scale of 1 to 10 do you think it is that they'll now want to add / remove / change a whole bunch of stuff?"
"hi rootccp has in the past retracted features that it believed was not being used, or not in the spirit of what was intended.my suggestions build upon most of what they have done, re the entosis link attacks, which for the most part have been left in place in this proposal. so development man hours are not being wasted.i believe ccp will look at any idea that enhances gameplay for eve residents. so assuming they believe, and feedback here believes, that the changes are worthwhile, then i think they have a good chance of going ahead.cheerscore"
"i rather like the idea, though i think they should still make sure there's a reason to go \"marauding around\" other than the loot from the ships you destroy.obviously it would have to be a lesser one, but something to pillage for isk perhaps? (expansion on ess?)"
"still support this idea from the shadows. with the pos overhaul on the table more discussion about how this will work with the new sov and structure system is needed. perhaps a strait up entosis link bonus like cycle time reduction. (probably to powerful) whatever happens something like this would be a lot of fun to play with. i'd like to see it come with the addition of many more mobile structures that have more short burst bonuses. this ship may be able to see mobile micro jump units have a larger tactical use in any engagement.no matter what ccp decides to do i just wanted to say that i still support this great idea!p.s. i know necroed the **** out of this but it was worth it. :)"
"hi thanatos,look at the viking roaming side effect, seems to be a decent isk earner for a week of heavy pillaging ;)"
"influence by said activities looks logical, but:lets say i want to take somebodys sov and live there, what i actually should do? step by step?mining, ratting, trading etc imposible in hostile system, so i need to shoot structures first and this is basically dominion soventosis concept in like it is now is boring and overpoweredso what i like as a result of your proposition:- add more activities to boost system defense (not only 3 indexes)- influence on nearby systemsso, you need to thing more about how it will actually workas a simple solution to current sov system i can propose:- if system is surrounded by systems which have the same claim then it is invulnurable to any attackso, you will need to start attack from alliance borders (with other alliance or hi\low sec). you can still take uncontested systems one by one (trolling is also possible) but you cant put the whole region on fire in 1 day (like in provi now)edit: and the last one, see alliance logo on map is cool but in fact thats all that we have from holding sov (bridges nerfed by phoebe and not every player build supercaps), so we need some benefits for every pilot in alliance that hold sov."
"hi josefto answer your questions.step by step to overtake a system, which can be done in a variety of ways, one would:* launch attacks into system to disable/destroy structures* destroy/disable production facilities* disrupt supply lines which both stops sales and gives you more influence points via the kill* build up influence in surrounding systems - this has a flow through effect.* install your own structures in system (yes it can be done in hostile systems)* attack and destroy enemy ships* destroy/disable the enemie(s) tcu* rat in the system* mine in the system* if possible manufacture/research/sales in the system (this would be a later step as hostile forces are forced back)so there is no 'point by point' way to do it, as it will be a combination of things, though not necessarily every point above.i have left the entosis link in the proposal as a way to disable functions, which can also be attacked in a traditional way as well, on structures and to keep ccp's coding investment in the entosis based system. it is just another way in my proposal of attacking someone. you will notice that in my proposal one must disable all structure functions by entosis before the structure can be attacked with it - perhaps the structure should be ground down as per traditional sov - so this is something that can be looked at.as the proposal outlines several ways that influence points are generated, each of which could be conceived/shown into an index to make things easier to understand.the above shows how it works. there are no hard and fast step by step rules on how one would take over a system - that will be up to how the attacker wants to do it. it is an extremely flexible system in that respect. and no, a system probably cant be taken over in a single day, unless perhaps every enemy structure and huge numbers of pilot and freighter kills occurred in the day before the isov calculation is made, and the system is possibly surrounded by your systems. then it could conceivably flip in a day. but generally a system wont flip in single a day. note: putting a whole system/region on fire in a day does not have anything to do with sov in this proposal, except that it would generate lots of influence points - whether thats enough to effect the isov standings for that 7 day period is another matter.second note: this proposal is for nullsec only.lastly, i dont know what you are talking about bridges/supercaps etc as it has little to do with my proposal.cheerscore"
"grats on making csm.:)now that you are csm, are you allowed to continue with this petition in the form of collective bargaining?or is this suddenly against your nda / csm contract?you posted this petition at 7-31 and gorga was kicked out on 8-04?perfect timing. :)"
"1) people can already buy sp on the character bazaar. this whole argument is null and void.2) 100+ mill sp doesn't make this game anymore fun. it will actually make you hate the game more."
"first lol.this is hilarious but valid. eve online is technically illegal in many usa states because of new anti cyber bully laws.lol again."
"all you want is fairness and transparency, right?"
"i had an idea for enriching the eve lore today. ok, so we all know the jovians are ccp. well until they give us another story that is what i believe. well what if they release a story that the jovians ascended somehow and have become like gods? then change all the ccp interaction stuff to jovian something or other. replace support tickets with \"prayers\" or something of the like. know what i mean? put ccp into the story. we all have to deal with ccp at some point while playing eve, so why not include them in the larger story. when you have to make a support ticket it really takes you out of the game. there should be no reason the eve immersion should ever be broken by anything ingame. we could create an entire mythos surrounding the deified jovians (ccp) and how they have infinite power to change anything in new eden if it is willed and prayed (requested) for by enough pilots. it would be like mt. olympus or the norse version, asgard. think of how cool that would be. each csm would be a representative of the gods and each gm would be a god. there could be massive back stories created and eve would become a much more story based rpg. story is everything to me in video games and i'm impressed with many of the changes ccp has made recently. i would love for some money and time to be thrown toward this endeavor. isk perhaps. i'd be willing to spin a tale with a team and see what ccp thinks. **ccp this is your chance to become gods. going to work each day could be your game while we pilots play ours."
"what."
"it seems that someone hit the battle a little hard and really did find religion at the bottom of it... or rather, a desire for it at the very least."
"i am not a religious person at all, but i think it is a better option than sending a support ticket into a company in iceland. it doesn't have to be faith really. look at the thor movies. those \"gods\" are real. no faith required."
"all of nullsec should become wormholesremove sov."
"uaxdeath is now a csm. i seriously doubt he is allowed to continue managing a petition against ccp decisions."
"1)just make super's only flyable within sov plus no jump fatigue. rebuff super's.you can only make super's in sov, you should only be able to fly super's in sov.i know ccp likes to make things complicated, so here is a more complex idea.2)if your pilot has been in an alliance or coalition that held sov with other corps/alliances that held sov in the last 90 days, the pilot cannot use supers. once they leave, the alliance / coalition. they will get 90 days of sov fatigue.pilot's that have not been members of corps with blue alliances/corps within the last 90 days and no sov fatigue can pilot supers and make supers.make super's incredible again so small corp's can project a large amount of power within a small foot print.super pilots will be happy by giving back more functionality to the super's and add value to small corps in nullsec.making new players dream of piloting super's valid again.p.s.maybe i should have called it alliance and coalition fatigue."
"is this because of uaxdeath's petition posted on 7-31?gorga is publicly kicked on 8-04?interesting...."
"it was nothing to do with it."
"ideally learning implants will die and this feature can be integrated into the game with no reservations. if not perhaps a bonus could be applied, like 75% jump clone delay reduction when changing clones in system/station."
"i sort of agree with this.remove implants / remove podding. make clone jumping from anywhere possible, instantly destroying the ship you are in and implants.make the button very easy to hit accidentally, generate lots of plexing for ccp."
"i am going to need to push for my old damage stacking penalty i wrote up years ago. incentive to split fire over press f1. still can blob fire, but total damage is less than if spread, etc etc. squad on squad fight, need ewar, etc."
"nothing is more annoying than firing off a salvo of these 'smart' missiles, only instead of them going slamming into a *dangerous serpentis space pirate*, they blow up the nearest space brothel! while this does wonders for space property prices, it is a bit silly that they prioritise buildings over flashy red things - i know they're supposed to target the nearest thing, but this is ridiculous! perhaps some balancing somewhere might be nice?"
"are you serious? no one needs your input crybaby. social justice warriors make me sick. hall monitor."
"ok so i think this would add a bit of fun to the procedure of complaining to ccp about bugs or making suggestions to ccp about possible game changes. you can not deny the similarity between our interaction with ccp and how a ppl have historically asked dieties for help. i think it would add a never before seen depth to the game. not really a religion at all since our \"gods\" ccp are provably real. i block anyone that tells me about the rules of this forum or suggest to me how i should speak."
"jesus, you nullbears whine more than even the hardiest dodixieite. adapt or die, htfu, etc etc."
"problem: fozziesov in its current state critically reduces chances for large scale fights, fights that significantly separate eve online from its competitors.false narrative. the large scale fights you speak of center around legacy tactics ( capital blops etc.). the new mechanic levels this playing field by allowing \"guerrilla style\" tactics to be an effective tool. by \"effective tool\" i mean:1. a means in which an opponent can gather intel by measuring your response. 2. requires the sov holder to defend what they desire to keep and prioritize sov holdings.3. requires any group who is determined to hold sov, that they have ability to demonstrate force projection in relation to current or desired sov holdings.and much more...gone are the days of holding sov under the \"threat\" of response umbrella. if anything, you will have a fight. the scale depends upon your willingness to risk ships or sov. that also means you will no longer be able to make the statement to your prospective renters that \"the area is safe\" nothing is safe. period! really? by your own logic that would also mean that low sp members of code, flying catalysts are harassing miners and haulers in hi sec! your logic also demands that they should have to fly something other than a cheap destroyers in order to gank in hi sec.this whole petition nonsense is without merit. for years and years players have claimed null is broke. the fact is that those players whining about the new sov are nothing more than a bunch of elitist adolescents who stomp their feet and throw tantrums when things don't go according to their liking. adapt or leave!!civil discourse is uniquely human. after all, when is the last time a pride of lions and a herd of water buffalo negotiated sov over a watering hole? never. someone either gets their ass kicked or eaten. at the end of the day someone holds sov."
"and they can have my eve, when they pry my keyboard from my cold, dead handsnot that hard to ignore insignificance. it just comes natural. no really!civil discourse is uniquely human. after all, when is the last time a pride of lions and a herd of water buffalo negotiated sov over a watering hole? never. someone either gets their ass kicked or eaten. at the end of the day someone holds sov."
"i would like to purchase 5 of whatever it is you're smoking."
"it doesn't contraven the \"nda\" in anyway. it's laughably a wrong-headed attempt from a buggy whip manufacturer to ban automobiles, but it's still a perfectly legitimate action for any eve player, csm or otherwise, to make a case for a change they want."
"lolwut? of course he is. it is basically the ccp-facing part of the job to do this."
"first, i want to thank all the sitting csm members for signing up to \"be the change that you are fighting to see.\" eve is full of armchair quarterbacks, and actually participating in the leadership of any decision making process is a lot of hard work. i guess i want to issue the same challenge to all the nay sayers that are constantly saying that eve is dying. i personally have played this game since 2008, and i still feel good about it. change, of which fossie sov represents, is always a tough road. while not perfect, i caution that the angst may be in large part due to a loss of priviledge. regardless, many others who live null day to day will expound on what real, meaningful changes ccp will need to impliment, but can we as players take a more positive outlook towards the various solutions that are game is experiencing. this brings me back to my original point... we need to be the change that we want to see. many complain that numbers are down, or have unsubbed in protest to make a point, but that doesn't help make eve better. no game is perfect and eve is reflective of that reality.i'm just tired of the negative mindset that's becoming more and more pronounced. we can't say hey eve is broken, and then when change is a attempted throw darts at the attempts to make it better. well, we can, but that lacks a sense of ownership that i feel is needed at this juncture of our games history. while i don't agree with a lot of things in eve - i also know that my experience with this incredible game isn't determined by others, my ships course and it's journey are my responsility alone! let's at least be positive!so thankyou csm (keep fighting the good fight) and i pledge to keep my outlook positive."
