"why should someone's vote be somehow nullified just because they're part of an alliance, why is the game not 'actually' played by members of major alliances, and what happens when the evil big alliances start bloc downvoting the heart of gold downtrodden little guyalso if they have it so rough how do the little guys keep managing to get themselves elected"
"just don't fill in all 14 choices."
"you see this here? this is my degree in politics and public law. i am now shaking said degree in the general direction of the eve forum servers and wishing mean, nasty, hurtful things upon you (ingame)."
"leaving a link to another thread here in case any devs (particularly the art department is still reading)"
"stopped reading here.you knew when you signed up for the game, at least you did if you actually read the eula and tos, that eve online is a pvp game. if you don't want to pvp, go play some other game, or hope and pray for the lastest vaporware of the month to be released.either htfu, or gtfo."
"i suggest asking for a very large amount of isk."
"this reminds me - i must complain to my local butcher about him not catering to vegitarians."
"ok, this one gets added to my signature."
"op, i don't think this is the game for you."
"i always find it surprising that someone can play this game for any length of time and just not understand the basic premise upon which it is built."
"yet everything you need to do that is already in the game, and at a hell of a lot cheaper price than this ship would be. a small pos, fuel to run for a few hours for your \"day trip,\" sma, guns, and ammo will all easily fit into a blockade runner, cost less than 150mil, and can all go up in about 20 minutes. having a ship that would potentially cost at least ten times what a basic small pos setup would cost, more than likely somewhere in the range of 20-30 times, is not \"reducing the barrier to entry.\""
"the idea of a force field-projecting ship is not a new one - a cursory look at the features & ideas subforum (where this belongs) would show that.i'm not against the idea, in fact i like some things about it. this sounds like it would make an excellent forward base in a combat operation."
"that is another use for it, especially if you have a small group that is effectively stuck in enemy space until help can arrive (due to current jump limitations, or as space expands, lord knows there would be systems without stations. so set up a safe, drop this ship into localization mode and then do work.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"(sorry may english is bad but i cant write in any other forums where samebody is undersand my l language and interested in this things. ) and if you dont understand what i read and aree you interested in this things may send mmy ingame mail and i try to explain it there. and yorry for a long text :dcalm down. the star citizen is coming in 2016. there you can guard yourself with transportship not yust watch your daying ship. and you can do other thing not yust \"pvp\". i think the way where the eve is goin now is going to the end of the game. the updats are fun but if you want to live in highsec you will need for biger and beter skilled corp to use this thing them in nullsec. i think it is funy. because if you have not skills and you are not in big corp yu will yust watch your butiful ships in the station. i think the noob farming is not so interesting way to make pvp. but now this is the most profitable thing what you can do. yust stand in front of jita with your frands in owerkilled ship (in dockrange of corse) and wait for reds 0-24 it may wery fun. but i'm on the bad side of this genital. we are in war for 3,5month with one weak break. the first was not problem. but the secund it was wery fun because one 3,5years old caracter farmd us yust because it is fun. and now nobady hel us wit the 3. war because \"they are frends\". in one sandbox game you can do what you want and yes if you want it is mining simulator or the space wersion of the farmville because it is a sand box game. but it is not a sandbox game it is one pvp game where you can do same industrial thinds if your envairoment want to you do thet. because if you do industry you are not so stong and your cargo is may expensive so you got always gank and wars yust because it is a sandbox game where you can rotate your ship on the station. it is the most usefull option for the players who want to make isk with industry in hs. i think if it is not change in the close future the game will be die when the competition will avalivable. but this game is to good to be yust a memory i hope samething will hapend with this unbalanced system because 50m is wery cheap for noobfarming. i want to pay 50m to the concord to decline the war ageinst us. i think its may fair because you can make decision if you want fight you will not pay if you want you will pay for the concord (not for the corp who wared you)."
"at the fanfest csm panel last year:"
"43506.0"
"you know you don't have to vote for all 14, right? by the time most votes hit their 5th or 6th candidate, the vast majority of their voting power is expended."
"you know that so many people go around telling people at 1) you have to vote for all 14 or 2) that if you don't vote for all 14, you're wasting your votes. and that came from people who were on csm 8. so it's hard to blame anyone for believing they did have to fill out all 14.the stv is not really well understood, even by its advocates. it's kind of hard to get behind or participate in something you don't understand."
"the idea of constituencies is not a new one and best answered with questions. if a player has alts in high but belongs to a null alliance which constituency does he belong to? do we have to register to vote? declare our allegiances before the actual campaigns begin? can you change your registration if you have chosen a new lifestyle? would there be a minimum residency requirement? could it be 'gamed' by an organized portion of the electorate?not to mention all the groups that would be bypassed if you had only the 'big four' of high, low, null and worm.stv is matth-y and confusing for some and yes i might be one who encourages people to fill out more of the ballot then might be needed but that is because i want to be sure their vote counts for something. better to have your ballot contain some extraneous names than to die because you only write one name . . . and they didn't get in. or another name but they were already in and didn't need your vote.show me a better way and i will support it, but going back to first past the post and or constituencies doesn't qualify for that support.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"i'll be honesti only really care about the first few names on my ballot. the rest are mostly mushed in names that incumbent csm members recommended"
"i must admit that is very strong and well explained point of view.i concede i was wrong, and now advocate stv voting as a simple, easy to understand, and unexploitable asset to the csm voting process, which encourages participation and diversity."
"i'm voting for aram kachaturian, eve's french prophet, and progod, the best fc in the game. because they're attractive and witty in real life."
"i do what i do every year which is to take the quiz and enter the results as votes, and get the same results as every year which is none of them win."
"yea having been a mostly high sec dweller moving to null is way more fun and safe"
"way much safer than low."
"that is why we need the abstain option!"
"what, specifically do you look for in a csm?have you considered the possibility that your expectations are unrealistic if not one of the several hundred candidates who have run for election in the past few years is even close to what you want?if not, have you considered running yourself, since there is clearly an unserved constituency."
"btw i am following this thread and if you have questions about what it is like being the 'highsec' csm guy. ask away.you are taking up a hard task because while a large percentage of the game live in highsec they do not organize nor do they really care about the metagame (elections included). hopefully leeloo and the rest of the ccp community team can generate some more noise this year and we can get a decent turnout.some will tell you that this is nulls year . . . with expected sov changes. yes and no. the changes are coming but the game is a whole, not isolated instances. any change in one area has an effect across the whole of the game. even when they are talking about a part of space you know less about you have the right and the responsibility to represent your part of the game and ask how it wide the effects will be.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"hi mike! thanks for stopping by!i think something like a popup on logging in for the week of the elections would be a good thing. like i have said, we get several popups in the run-up to downtime every day... one week of pop-ups on logging in with the elections coming would not be too much more of an inconvenience. then we could at least be sure that no one missed out on voting because they didn't know!!! i hope that the changes in null will bring us high sec carebears also fresh wind! aside from the game mechanics, i hope that the changes in null will make it more exciting than it previously seemed to be, and more accessible (for someone sitting outside and watching)."
"i feel the same way. i've been in nullsec and liked it, but trying to maintain myself out there is stressful. i just don't play the game enough anymore, and as a result if i want to join in on a fleet starting out there, i have to gather my things and ship out a day before in preparation, because that's actually easier than staying out there sometimes."
"what would you feel would make you change that feeling ?cause csm9 is looked upon in general as one of the most easy to reach and open onces. with twitter, scype, eve radio sessions, weekly updates from several members, fixed chat sessions, and even ingame mails i think. not to mention quickest minutes ever, so i woudl liek to know how you dissatisfied, and how to change it"
"ahem!hi! we would love to hear from you.executive editor, csm watch || writer, co-host of the cap stable podcast || twitter: @lanctharus"
"your evesterdam speech was solid. you will have my vote.btw is the voting open?"
"most of those resources you have listed have been completely unknown to me completely until now.and even still, i cannot find much advocation from you as representative of the playerbase, and provibloc specifically. in the the year i have been playing eve on this account - most of which coinciding with your continued tenure in csm 9 - i have been made aware of but one advocation that you've made to ccp regarding jump fatigue and its impact on null travel with jump fatigue. and i only learned of that two weeks ago through speaking with the executor of a provibloc sov holding alliance regarding the concerns i have regarding our representation through you to the csm.the closest advocation for a specific idea without going gray pouring through all the media mash is a tweet you sent out on the 23rd of january:<U+FFFD>a sovereignty design, with the goals including spreading fights over a larger area, and removing the requirement for hitpoint grinding.<U+FFFD>that sounds great and i wholeheartedly agree: in fact, most people would. however, it lacks specifics. what<U+FFFD>s more is that it<U+FFFD>s missing your thoughts on how the sovereignty mechanics in eve should be rethought. this is nothing more than a statement of general sentiment from the playerbase.how do you think taking a system in null should work specifically? what burdens should an aggressor or system defender face and ultimately triumph over to take sovereignty in a system? do you think certain mechanics of sov warfare in it<U+FFFD>s current form should be removed entirely and replaced by new ones? if so, what are they?these are the sorts of questions that go unanswered, and this is simply for one of many issues you have mentioned in your platform. i am fully aware that there is an nda legally binding you from releasing details from the csm summit and communication between you, the csm, and ccp, but surely your personal opinion isn't under such constraints, correct?another recent tweet you've sent out was rhavas<U+FFFD>s (full disclosure, i have no idea who this guy is) <U+FFFD>early thoughts (of the) csm x elections and the end of csm 9<U+FFFD>. he writes the following:<U+FFFD>i haven<U+FFFD>t been able to get excited about core. i have seen a lot of cheerleading but not a lot of constructive activity. a lot of <U+FFFD>good fight<U+FFFD> tweets, but that doesn't equate to csm quality for me. i haven<U+FFFD>t seen any real communication of substance. maybe the summit minutes will show something different. his constituency does seem to like him, so while i don<U+FFFD>t endorse him, if you<U+FFFD>re a provi person and like what he<U+FFFD>s done, go for it.<U+FFFD>while those aren<U+FFFD>t my words, those are my sentiments exactly. i feel as though the entirety of your platform is simply that of geographical representation.i hope you understand the message i am conveying and how disappointed i am to be doubtful that our csm representative from provibloc is representing us well as a region and coalition, and the playerbase in whole.regardless, i am looking forward to that en24 post and i wish you among all the other csm x candidates the best of luck."
"newbros need all the help they can get. big +1 from me."
"bobmon sat down with the cap stable podcast for an interview:"
"just a couple of questions.if elected to be on the csm how much influence do you expect to have on the future development of eve?does your channel function as publicity for your campaign to get on the csm or does a position on the csm function as publicity for your channel?"
"i'm an optimist, but i understand that my influence as a csm member would be limited to that of a (very vocal) communicator. i don't have illusions that i will be doing more than bridging the wishes of the community to the strategy of ccp, and vice versa. i also understand i would have only one voice among many csm members, but that's why being a good listener and taking a diplomatic air have value.realistically speaking, my channel functions as publicity for literally everything i do in the videogaming world. but it should be obvious the channel is not a tool for the purposes of winning a csm race, or even for the purposes of eve specifically. i have been making youtube videos since 2008 because gaming strategy and humor fascinate me.i don't see the csm helping my channel particularly. most people who'd be aware of me or my corporation already know about my channel!"
"greetings! before i get started, i wanted to go ahead and introduce myself. i go by erika mizune, however i also go by dj yumene for those of you who know me from eve radio. i was introduced to eve through eve radio by several of the staff and listeners when i joined curiously to find out what it was about. i have been playing eve since 2011, or since 2010 if you count my first account that let lapse because i couldn<U+FFFD>t get into it, so it took me until my second account (this one) for everything to really start clicking. i started to fall in love with the game and the beauty that it held. i also have made some great friends over the time because of this great game.i am asking for your support in voting for me as a representative for csmx. i feel that i have the drive and the passion with the community at heart.my play-style includes mainly the industrial route. i live in sov. null-sec. i mine, manufacture, run inventions, run a hauling service, and pretty much anything in between. i have always loved the industrial side of the game, but at times it does seem to be also unappreciated. granted there have been a lot of changes to the industrial side of things; including the introduction of teams, even though they didn<U+FFFD>t turn out well, the idea was good, and does need tweaking, so i<U+FFFD>m happy to see ccp looking at that and am looking forward to seeing that come into play again.one thing that i feel most people can agree on is that most industrial work is tedious and boring, especially mining. you sit there and mindlessly shoot a rock until it<U+FFFD>s depleted and then it -poofs- out of the belt with really no <U+FFFD>reward<U+FFFD> as you do with other jobs you can do in eve. for instance when you go out and pvp and run missions, you chances at loot and extra isk to go along with it when you kill npc<U+FFFD>s or other characters. when it comes to industrial, you don<U+FFFD>t really have that feeling of <U+FFFD>reward<U+FFFD>.there is also the point that a lot in the industrial side, you have more risk than reward. industrial ships are pretty much defenseless when it comes to being able to fight back when they are in the process of getting ganked and killed and they are scrammed and webbed. it was also taken away a long while back, the ability to use a pos remotely when it came to installing jobs. you used to be able to start the jobs from the station and select a pos module, so you didn<U+FFFD>t have to risk your bpo<U+FFFD>s by flying them out to the pos, however that is no more as you have to place the bp<U+FFFD>s inside the pos modules since that. while it<U+FFFD>s little things and i know ganking happens, but with any other types of ships, you have the ability to defend yourself and actually fight back, it would be nice to see this on more industrial ships. adding just an extra high slot to barges and exhumers would be nice in this case and would make a load of difference in my opinion.what i would like to see, especially on the mining side is to make it more interesting, or exciting, maybe adding some kind of <U+FFFD>bonus<U+FFFD> when you mine an asteroid out completely. an idea that i have had for a bit is the idea that when you deplete an asteroid is that the fragments that are left over scatter around the belt and you can maybe find a extra ore pop up. this is just a rough idea of something that i think would add something new to the mining pool and add something cool as a reward for mining out a rock completely like you get when you kill an npc or other player. but i think if we could get more of these <U+FFFD>little<U+FFFD> things then it would make mining more <U+FFFD>exciting<U+FFFD> and <U+FFFD>fun<U+FFFD> than tedious and boring. that<U+FFFD>s just one of the ideas that i had for the industrial side of things. another thing that i feel would be more story-line development, which is something that i don<U+FFFD>t feel is worked on very much. i know we have had bits and pieces here and there, but i would like to see something further.mission i feel could be also heavily improved on. this is something that i had done heavily when i lived in high-sec, however over time, it started to feel like no more than a grind. i felt like i was in wow grinding some daily to get some gold (isk) reputation (lp). so i eventually stopped unless i was doing them with someone else. when sisters of eve missions came out i was very heavy and active doing those as well, however i fell into the same <U+FFFD>grindy<U+FFFD> feeling as i did before. so i eventually stopped doing those as well.<U+FFFD>damsel in distress needs you to save her!<U+FFFD> *rolls eyes* her again? hasn't she learned by now? can<U+FFFD>t i just go there and blow her up for being a stupid moron? she keeps getting herself in this mess! let her get herself out of it! geeze ... i don<U+FFFD>t know how many times i have done that mission. but i think it shows that the mission are all so repetitive and there never seems to feel like there is any build up. i would love to see more storyline driven missions and keep it fresh.but in any case, these are just some of the thoughts that i had and wanted to share. i do feel that i am very well rounded in this game, even with my play-style mainly focusing on the industrial side of things, i have also taken part of nearly every other aspect of the game as well, and i think having that will come hand-in-hand for someone being on the csm having more knowledge aside just from one area. so i feel that i would be able to speak up for all aspects of eve.and with that, i think that is enough rambling, and that is all that i have for right now. i look forward to what this season holds and best of luck to the others running.thank you! <3"
"migui for president! +1"
"so you turned up for sod all meetings, what ever.why didn't you do a post for the csm yearly review"
"[ 2015.01.25 06:29:03 ] xenuria > real talk<U+FEFF>[ 2015.01.25 06:29:19 ] xenuria > do you actually beleive that i magically teleported to iceland to vandalize my own name on the eve monumetn?<U+FEFF>[ 2015.01.25 06:29:29 ] xenuria > y / n<U+FEFF>[ 2015.01.25 06:29:34 ] gorski car > that is a possibility yeahi think you should adjust your statement..."
"he is also running a blog/podcast and helps support eve101.com behind closed doors. the guy knows what commitment means."
"citri hats geschafft, mein interesse an pvp zu wecken, und das ist eine leistung bei mir als carebear-stereotypen ;)ich trau ze german guy auch weiterhin einiges zu und werde ihm mein vertrauen schenken!beste gr<U+FFFD><U+FFFD>e und viel erfolg,assan reda"
"i sat down with sion kumitomo for a csm x interview:"
"sion,in that interview you claim that xander breached the csm nda on his podcast. you also assert that nda'd information makes its way to people in a non-public fashion, which you discern through people's posts and so forth. that's a rather presumptuous claim to make given you lack anything really in the way of evidence. do you feel that, given that ccp aren't keen on having people do that sort of thing, and the fact xander is still a full member of the csm without incident, your allegation is still true? csm members have been ejected for far less than what you are accusing xander of, and he remains on the csm. your thoughts on that? it certainly comes across as rumor mongering which is rather petty to do during a campaign, which is rather sad to see you resort to.also pro-tip, you need a better mic. the one you used is pretty bad, and you should use the $30 it takes to get a better one. unless, of course, you can't afford it."
"wow on one hand you are trying to discredit sion by sighting that you have some kind of inside understanding of what makes ccp trigger on csm ejection, and then on the other hand you are trying to push him down even more by attaching his mic and possible income level?since when was space ships about your income level?"
"say what you like about that interview, it was the most controversially listenable one yet. and i include xenuria's weirdfest in that."
"if you mean referring to ccp's past treatment of \"problem children\" within the csm is having \"some kind of inside\" then sure, i have intimate understanding of how the csm is handled by ccp. also, if you took the quip about his mic as an attack then you are very sensitive to internet forums. endie is right, it was a controversially listenable interview even without the mic issues. please don't feel the need to rush to your alliance mates defense when he is asked for further clarification. i'm sure he's fully capable and mature enough to respond on his own."
"yes i am rushing to the defence of my alliance mate o7."
"anyone who's read my posts knows that i'm not exactly sion's greatest fan as a person. he is, to be frank, an abrasive jerk. as one myself, i am qualified to say so, and he applies the term to himself. however he does have at least one of the two essential qualifiactions to be a good csm: he cares about the game, and he cares about the csm. it doesn't matter tuppence whether i'd want to go drinking with him; it matters if i think he will energetically and sincerely pursue ccp to address the issues that are important. i am confident that he would if re-elected.the other qualification is to be an effective team player, to avoid alienating people who are not required to use the csm as a resource, and to demonstrate that the csm can be a professional, cohesive team. my confidence here is not quite so emphatic. sion has been pretty clear about what he wants from ccp; i hope that he will also realise that more will be required from him to earn that commitment from the devs and restore some of the bridges that have been - if not burned, then he will surely admit, pretty badly scorched.he's capable of it. if he can redefine his style in his second term in this way, i think he could be an extremely effective csm member, and help turn csm x into something more useful than the current team."
"good idea, so what we talking about 12 hours? or 24 hours? really need you to expand on this idea"
"*cough*"
"are you like, 12?get out."
"why, because i realize often times csm members get mentioned in reviews and reports about eve, and having a public figure for the game being named \"psychobitch\" might attract some unwarranted negativity towards eve in those cases?and i was just bringing to a point aswell i have seen people with less offensive names get renamed by ccp for being \"against the tos/eula\", so was surprised one as blatant as op's was allowed."
"first, i find your name offensive. so please change it, second please disconnect your internet, third if you would be ever so kind stop..."
"it is not afk isk generation when people have to form up and defend that rental space. perhaps our rental program is vastly superior to the rest. i'm not a huge fan or swaths of rental empires. you would see these start to shrink if some things like structure notifications went away. it is really easy to know your losing rental space when the very moment it is attacked you are notified of it no matter where you are in the game."
"only as a result of people adjusting to the changes. since that initial shuffle to consolidate sovereignty things have been generally quiet. i went from having around one capital fleet a day to one to two every two weeks."
"drop caps on targets closer?"
"also a wonderful dancer."
"you said that would stay between us."
"what is your position regarding lnaw, eve's most illustrious corporation?"
"i think cas mania should try harder in matching the rest of you when it comes to the family picture."
"what about big vs small \"organizations\" thingshould big ones be made \"somehow\" less mobile, bureaucratic beacause there share size. even if such thing is possible."
"+1 for leaks and the tears it created."
"they already are. running a coalition the size of the cfc or n3 is a gigantic amount of work, and there's a hell of a lot of organisational friction."
"what i am not a fan of is that in order for the small organization to have any meaningful participation in null requires not just the blessing of the larger ones, but having someone on staff who has an it background. right now it is either join or die with no room in the middle for a variety of options.i'm not implying a large organizations have it easy, but the bar for entry into null should not require becoming part of a coalition or waiting until you have thousands of players to forcefully take a single system away from the large organization."
"what do you think the qualifying size ought to be?"
"1 (the active small group) should qualify more than 0 (the inactive large group)."
"never not believe in your own opinions.\"terribad\" is not a real word although if it were, it would be applicable to your needs and wants.coo - bene gesserit chapterhouse ceo - sanctuary pact alliance"
"just a few questions:why would this ship be shield tank rather than armor like every other soe?why would it come with defenses? why not allow the ship to support a few t3's and finally give t3's the ability to resubsystem, then actually allow the players to defend themselves?what is the major ease of this vs the small pos discussed above? why devote development resources to this rather than just allowing for a more fuel efficient x-small pos?why soe vs ore? it seems like an ore bs/bc-size ship would probably fit this role better... allow it to seige into a similar thing, but with ore compression capability, a modest fleet hangar array with repair/refit support, sizable holds for specific raw materials such as ore, raw gas, etc... something kind of like a rorqual light...there's more to daytripping in wormholes than exploration. might be interesting to give it a jump/bridge range limited to industrial types only (to help get resources back into hi-sec/past gatecamps). who knows? maybe this will be the ore t3 battlecruiser. but then again, there is probably a dozen things that these capabilities would break."
"i would like to know if the nda is stifling and/or narrowing out of game opinions from bloggers, podcasters, and other eve media persona.i would like the nda not to fall under the nda, and like the csm white paper to be open to the public,so future csm candidates know what to expect between a future role as csm member and ccp games before signing the nda source:"
"well as jester pointed out in his post, the nda is under nda. should it be public? i don't see why not, but it's not my call, or anyone on the csm's call to make. i can tell you that it doesn't restrict us from giving our opinions on things, but it needs to kept in mind when talking about anything related to the csm. many csm members will err on the side of caution, since breaking the nda can have rl consequences above and beyond anything done in game."
"sorry mike, but this is why you would probably never accept any suggestion i make. i believe that the mere act of voting is a positive act worthy of a person's effort, while you consider it a waste of time unless the vote results in helping someone achieve quota. i actually think it is worse if you vote for a candidate you don't feel strongly about or even know much about than to cast a ballot that does not result in casting a vote for a winner. but, on the bright side, if you look at the csm from a market research perspective, the stv will get the most out of the limited sample that will select the members of the focus group"
"the supers have been part of the game for years and talks nerf's have all been done over the years. no body rarely uses them unless they don't care to lose them from big fleet battle. only big alliances have access to them which is great if you use them. at this time i would have to agree with some of community members on a new look of how we use them in battle. at this point i agree on few things which should be done. it should not cost arm and leg to build them and rarely see them used. i want would like too see them all goo boom more at less of the cost to build them. here's how we can do this... maybeall supers before patch will not be effected.all supers: built after the patch...75% reduce in hit points...75% reduce in cost of building them.. allow them to dock in player own stations...keep them different.. add new concert too the supers...titans - bring back new weapons then just dps....people would like to see area of effect back.. lets add new ew types..... like etc (drones become ununresponsive) x mount of timesupers - lets add modular type of fighters or let us even fit them.. they can't be signed...goal here is too see more get built to go boom.. i would like them used just as much as other capitals.... jump in dye replace.... repeat as needed ...."
"i can assure you that people do not want aoe dd back. or do you think dropping one ship, firing that, and demolishing an entire fleet is good gameplay?as for supers, the ship you are describing is called a carrier. as an aside, what do you think would happen if someone with a fleet of these new supercaps would do if they got into a fight with a cfc, n3 or pl fleet of current supers?"
"nope. super proliferation includes small alliances and even unaffiliated corps.i will take five of whatever it is you're smoking."
"it's interesting to speculate upon, but it just wouldn't affect the outcome even slightly. abstaining from a candidate is the same as not putting them on your list."
"they have withdrawn -"
"the top 14 which the quiz gives are the ones closest and they are where my vote goes to (can't remember the quiz name, but gets reposted always near the time)."
"proof"
"your pretty much a shoein for the wormhole vote. the people respect you. my question is that is there any other promising wormhole candidates. i haven't checked if asa is rerunning."
"+1 will vote"
"glad to see you running again, mike.one of the few that i see getting involved on a daily basis with the player base. not like most that you never hear from between election campaigns.mr epeen"
"every year someone from code decides to declare their candidacy and then ends up dropping out.so tell us why we should bother reading this thread since it is likely a waste of time? why should we take you seriously? what can you offer us that this is not the yearly code election troll?mr epeen"
"the main concern i have with your being in the csm would be that code seems to have a problem with respecting anything organized outside itself (see last years atx) so i would wonder if you would respect what the csm is and what it does. based on the amount of time and effort in explaining what you believe in and all the responses i am somewhat convinced that you would.not saying i would vote for you but at least you seem serious about it."
"+1 from methat being said, can you highlight specific topics pertaining to the npe and actions you would like to take to address them? are there any particular changes you are confident to implement with the empowerment of a csm member?"
"+1 from me when i joined grrka who belongs to naga and therefor to bni i got thrown into the meatgrinder of f9e(?) with several hundreds of bni newbros in maulus<U+FFFD>s and the most impressive part outside of all the pl supercaps was the morale of bni f"
"jayne, simple question for you: how would you go on about introducing more small gang into 0.0 warfare?"
"+1 will vote."
"jayne you're just a demagogue advocating for drastic changes and appealing to your npsi base. and you're right npsi groups aren't just pvp groups. they are political entities that have their own motives. i question if those motives are good for the game or not.and to be honest the argument that 'npsi groups are different therefore there will be no political alliances' is **** poor at best. i don't havr to imagine such a peversion of rwo social groups because they already exist in eve and in the real world.but please continue to dodge the points i'm making and hide behind your 'im an fc in spectre noob stfu you don't know what you're talking about'. its time to deliberate about your proposals"
"i'm sorry to say that in light of today's discovery, i am unsure that these qualities are present in you. i was browsing through eve-kill, zkills and eventually evewho and i found your page:"
"i think he meant to say \"damnit khoid.\" unfortuantely his tweet got lost in translation."
"you've made your point and i've told you that i don't agree. restating it is neither going to help nor change my answer when neither of us has anything beyond our words and our opinions. thankfully, i have experience in these kinds of communities, and you don't... but it's still my word against yours.also, of course i'm advocating for changes that are appealing to my npsi base. that is the playstyle that i enjoy, and the people who play eve in similar ways are the people that i specifically want to represent on the csm. that's the point."
"what a strange question.the tweet is certainly authentic, which you could have easily verified:"
"well it isn't about whispering sweet nothings in people's ears. it's about maintaining your composure and not blowing your lid. it just surprised me that is all. i wonder what could illicit such an angry response (toward that player, not me i mean). you don't need to be so defensive with me, i'm simply not familiar with the issue."
"the story is long, and honestly not worth discussing. if you're truly interested in the backstory, a check of our employment history and a read through of his articles on en24 should suffice."
"i sent a pm! anyway back on topic. in your vision for npsi will there be a chance for things similar to corp thefts and other fun shenanigans?"
"in all honesty stop trying to swiftboat jayne.the whole drama affair was pretty much manufactured by seraph for a personal grudge."
"several good candidates this year i've got my eye on. any updates to that hope of making regions/clusters of regions more self sufficient (in terms of resource availibility) for null? or do you see the upgrades to wormholes as a viable replacement to the jf's of old as a tether to jita? i only ask because that seems to be the normal means of moving goods to and from hi-sec now.as a relatively new (1 year) player, its kind of annoything that everytime i try and help the alliance/coalition i'm in with industry/invention/production, the answer is always \"it's just easier to import it, if you want to help, train t2 haulers\". especially considering i'd like to be able to fund my roaming addiction with industry skills (pi/ reasearch/ manufacturing) rather than ratting or mining."
"i don't think jita is or should be the answer for nullsec. i think local industry and production as a means of supply is much better. think about it if you will. a few nullsec guys running back and forth to jita doesn't offer much in the way of meaningful gameplay. however sourcing and producing locally would have many more people in space doing things. those activities are buds for conflict drivers. reasons for people to come and raid those people or interfere with their activities. which gives meaningful reasons for defense & patrol fleets. if it were my call id nuke the jf and give it the same fatigue and cooldown as other caps <U+FFFD>."
"thanks for the interview!"
"oh my glob! yes! take my vote mister ravinne!he is pretty spot on with the changes that need to happen with the npe, and how to make exploration better for everyone. now this is a candidate relevant to my interests!"
"you've got my vote too chance.not only he's a professionnal delivery agent, but he's also got the skill \"customer service\" to level vi !"
"love your videos and your posts here are very good; got my vote's on both my toons :)"
"you have my vote bud."
"ok my questions:what is your opinion on the status of high sec? ganking? war dec dodging?is there a afk cloaker problem? why or why not?what changes to the game do you like so far?what do you think needs to be fixed?i'm sure i will have more."
"you are entertaining for sure and people like your vids. your vids that to date have covered one tiny aspect of this huge universe.so while i like you and what you've brought to the game, i can't vote for someone with as little knowledge of the big picture as you have. but you have a good attitude and i look forward to seeing what you bring to the table for next years election.keep up the good work. you are a fine cheerleader, but not ready for a position on the csm yet.mr epeen"
"my name is bhock and i am one of the contributor of the capstable podcast.in early 2014 our podcast interviewed a great majority of the candidates for csm9 and we will be doing the same for csm10.here is our announcement:"
"emailed as requested. look forward to your reply! :)thank you!"
"wooot go for it. i wanna see you up on csm 10.in all fairness, you love this game and daymn you can express an opion. you gotta fight, for the people's right, to parrrrrrtaaaaay!"
"i would like it so that over all mining yield is nerfed. but in return we have some sort of mini game that's actually fun and winning that game gets you more yield than what we currently have. this way it's actually fun to be active while mining and you get rewarded for it.maybe i'm crazy but i love doing relic and data sites."
"bump thread. receive conflag."
"unless active version comes with some added perk that has direct implication on just simple \"resource\" grabbing mechanism. in either way, the idea isnt to maintain the status quo of the market, but rather to make sure that active mining is able to compete with an army of bots, at which points, yes, chances are they will be on equal footing in terms of raw market impact, but the difference is taht a newbro flying a venture actively mining might be able to keep up with 2 botted accounts afk-mining. also, migui +1"
"vote for migui! +1"
"+1good guy"
"hello capsuleers!we the cast of the cap stable podcast have been busy these past couple of months recording candidate interviews so that the community can make an informed decision on who they want to choose to represent their interests on the council of stellar management x.you can listen to the candidate's individual interviews on our dedicated csmx page:"
"oh no. apparently, i sound terrible on that podcast. oh well. thanks for the interview guys. edit: are the five in the selection banner your top choices?"
"looks nice! thanks for putting this together"
"great job! i will make this thread sticky :)"
"those are the five most recent interviews......."
"as a tru elite pvper gorski is my man.pls advocate the introduction of faction tracking disruptors and i will vote u kthx.im shocked about xenuria postings tho, gorski ur very bad."
"edit: apologies to xander because i somehow always confuse xander and dj funkybacon."
"just listened to your capstable interview on the way to work. you come across as being very professional and well balanced, unlike some of the other candidates they have interviewed.i think endie and yourself will be a great team, working for the good of the game."
"in your interview on cap stable, you mentioned that you feel the csm is a meta game entity. can you elaborate on that more and without breaking nda, give some examples?"
"thanks for bringing up an excellent point on the need for greater transparency and visibility into the csm. protocols do not currently exist to allow csm members to truly hold each other accountable, or for the voting public to hold their elected representatives accountable, so it can indeed come off as rumor mongering. this is something i'm going to attempt to tackle next term should i be elected again. as is, i entirely understand your reticence and am sympathetic as to how it could appear to be petty. with any luck, this will not be an issue next year pending some badly needed reform actions. the closed door nature of the csm ill serves the purpose of the institution. from one jerk to another, i consider it high praise. where you see the most of me is in alumni though, which i explicitly rope off for trolling. i couldn't run a team of diplomats, seventy directors, or any of the other people-centric organizations i run if that was my normal mode of interaction with people. it's a matter of definitions. though metagame has evolved in eve into a verb (i got metagamed, they metagamed me), it was originally used as noun used to refer to actions taken beyond the ruleset of a game that had potential impacts on said game. an elected space council meeting in real life and shelving their space persona to talk about business, game implications, rules, and other such is thus by definition a metagame entity. this is distinct from \"the csm is metagaming players,\" which is both a misunderstanding of term usage and patently false."
"solid response."
"when you say that protocols do not allow for csm members to \"truly hold each other accountable\" what do you mean? an internal reporting system or something similar? what would you publicly say the csm should do to be more open under your ideal settings?how would you suggest the voting public be enabled to hold a csm accountable? a formalized body that runs as a check & balance of the csm? a more structured process outside of voting a year after a csm has more or less been deadweight? the only real example i can cite recently of the public holding a csm member accountable for their actions was when major j silva got outed for account sharing, which saw him ejected from the csm."
"csm ombudsman please"
"sort dragon is best dragon!"
"hello there wormholers of eve online!i am bane cortex, a long time wormholer and player of eve. i am looking to becoming part of csm x. the main focus of my campaign is to solely aid ccp in the further development of wormhole content and mechanics. there are a few things i would like to focus on if i were to become part of csm x would be as follows:- anomaly mechanicsin relation to anomaly mechanics there are a few things i would like to look over. there is a definable issues for corps living in whs mostly c5s with the randomness of the spawning of lowsec entrances to holes. this make corps living in these worm holes have to go through great wait times to be able to get to any content. along with that being said there is also a large latency with spawn times on combat sites as well. i bring these points to the tables solely to aid in the creation of more content for players. home content should be as important as static content.- balance wormhole effecti would like to point out black holes and cataclysmic variables at this point. these along with some effect make certain wormholes undesirable. this is forcing corps that want to so content into wormholes where they may require more ships or skills in order to create content. the effects on wormholes should be more even across the board to make it so there are no wormholes left out, creating more content for players.- make wormholes more accessible for new playersthis strongly follows suit with the last two points i made. there is a strong need for content to be explored more and possible have more mechanics made so there is more interest in wormholes for new players. wormholes are a great part of eve online and every new player should be able to explore then.- refine corporate interface ( ie: bookmark issues)i know there is a corp management page updating coming but there has always been a large issue with having multiple corps in the same hole. it is understandable that ccp may only want one corp to a hole but there is being looked over and there should be accommodations made so multiple corps can coexist in a single wormhole under the same alliance.- lower class wormhole contentthere has always been an issue with the skill gaps between wormhole class levels. with that being said i would like to look into ways to ease the transfer of players through the levels of whs so they can get a chance to see the entire content this game offers. as is stand c1-3 wormholes are excellent for starting up wormholes corporations. they provide decent content but do not allow the number of sites and isk require to fuel poses in these hole so new corporations can get a foothold on low class wormhole space. i would like to see c1,c2 and c3 whs be viable content for players.- more wormhole systemsi know over the years there have been additions of more whs but i would like to see a steady increase in the number of wormholes as the player base for wh rises. as it stands it can be a very tasking and difficult process for a corpotation to fine an empty wormholes to live in.- fix ore sitesthe creation of more ore sites for wormholes would be a great addition for eve online and would allow there to be a larger player base for doing wormhole mining. i do believe that mining minerals in a wormhole should be more viable than it currently is.the list goes on for potential ideas. personally i feel wormholes and wormholers make up a critical part of eve online. they do require more attention and i would like to do this for us all.feel free to reply with question i will gladly reply."
"care to expand on them a bit?i'd love to hear your ideas and reasoning behind each of those points"
"ok, a few questions:\"my campaign is to solely aid ccp in the further development of wormhole content and mechanics\"do other eve players not matter?your platform- anomaly mechanics what is this?- balance wormhole effect check the hyperion change log please, what needs balancing after that?- make wormholes more accessible for new players isnt this what low class holes are for? ccp has made scanning, etc far easier already too, or do you want to put gates in for them to come in?- refine wormhole mechanics how so? what mechanics, again too vague for me to have feelings for - consistence of context for wh players isnt rolling our solution? we do it pretty good, no content, make a new chain? please specify..- refine corporate interface ( ie: bookmark issues) would be nicer if it was more user friendly, not sure what you would want changed exactly though- lower class wormhole content remove it or add more? and how? and why?- make c1s viable content they seem to be inhabited... so it must be viable... not sure what you are getting at... p.s. blue loot for their sites went up in value- more wormhole systems specific, finally, and completely against this, already added shattered holes, and enough empty systems around already- fix ore sites again how? if this is the make them need scanning down bandwagon of early 2014 (iirc?), please given reasons... i still see as many miners in w-space as i did before the changes (1 or 2 rarely per fortnight)tl;dr, care to be more specific, seemed like throwing anything there for the sake of it with no clarification, and some points calling for change but not specifying how.. cant decided if its positive or negative without knowing what you want..regards and good luck with the campaign o7"
"welcome bane, it is good to see another candidate with the time and commitment, willing to spend the effort required to represent the wormhole community.i, as many of us, are very interested to see, just what you have in mind, the core ideas are sound, but as they say, the devil is in the detail.please give us the opportunity to support you, by expanding on the points you raise, we do need more to go on than just a few points from the wormhole little things thread.i suggest you reach out to corbexx, he has been a masterful csm, and a good example to follow. if you can convince him of your merit, and have his support, you will gain many supporters. he has earned the respect of the wide community, and if you can match his efforts, insight, and communication abilities, you will also prove a worthy candidate.good luck, and i for one will watch with great interest."
"i don't mean to be probing, but something seems a little off. some more indepth explanation would be good... but i have some concerns.zero posts on the forum.what seems like 0 wormhole experience.just left sniggwaffle (been in and out of them).just started a alt corp for yourself claiming \"wormholes\". your corps been around for 3 days, your the ceo, with 1 other guy in it.something doesn't pass the smell test. i'll edit or remove this if more information from the candidate arises (everybody deserves a fair shot)."
"if i had to guess, i'd say he wants in on the csm and thinks wormholes will be the easiest category to challenge."
"i will be adding to the post later today a expanded version of each point i posted originally, also i am not picking wormholes because they are easy. i picked wormholes because i have almost solely been living in wormholes since their inception. i feel this is my strong suit in eve and i think there is room for improvement in this aspect of the game."
"the corp i am in currently in part of a wh alliance. bust almost every corp for the past few years that iv been involved with aside from sniggwaffe has been in whs."
"that's cool, but i still can't put some of your history together. one of the first things people look at is the kill board. this month, catch, last month, nullsec, more nullsec, and more nullsec. the most i've seen out of the kill board regarding wormholes, outside of what seems like a 6th month long layoff (happens to everybody) is a vargur and a mack in w space. that and your loss of a guardian to a bomber ( i would love to hear the backstory on that one). you seem to be primarily nullsec. now to be a wormhole candidate doesn't mean you can never leave wormhole space, but it seems like you haven't sacrificed to bob enough to really be put on the pedestal of a wormholer. if i am wrong here, please let me know, i have no issues with correcting my above assertions. now if you are a guardian pilot i can get why the kill board looks like that (fly logi myself). but let's get past the conspiracy theory for a moment. is there any wormholer you know, in your corp or alliance, who can speak to your character, play style, personality? while i may seem a bit skeptical, we really don't know who you are at all. what makes you want to be a wormhole csm candidate? what are your opinions on the previous and current wormhole csm's? that being corbexx, asayamami dei, two step, james arget, chitsa jason. have you spoken with any of them regarding their experiences, future or past changes, etc?"
"my name is bhock and i am one of the contributors of the capstable podcast.in early 2014 our podcast interviewed a great majority of the candidates for csm9 and we will be doing the same for csm10.here is our announcement:"
"i fully endorse pantsufan.he was a brilliant leader of bungle.... battlement coalitionhe has experience with dealing with the fallout of being scamed.he's got extensive experience renting and the consequences of failing to pay rent to landlord alliances.he has intimate knowledge of what causes fail cascades, having had 2 fail cascades occur under his leadership.he's extremely understanding of his players needs, thus why he insists they not rat without an fc to keep them safe.i fully endorse him for csm because i feel that ccp completely deserves to deal with him after foisting phoebe on us.\"no bastard ever won a war by dying for his country. he won it by making the other poor dumb bastard die for his country.\""
"i endorse pantsufan's candidacy for running for csmi look forward to actually being interested in reading the minutes of csm x if he wins. should be full material that will lead to enlightening discussions about eve"
"i fully support pants and xenuria for csm. under their tenure surely rise and fozzie will pull their hair out, move onto riot and we can get some ship balance that isn't centered around drones or 5 man low sec gangs."
"-20 not voting for loose lips."
"would you qualify goonswarm federation as a large active or inactive group?"
"if i had to pick one; considering their size in membership, i would lean on inactive. this of course fluctuates depending on the time of year and what is happening in game."
"lnaw endorses marlona sky; victory is assured."
"hello marlonawhat do you think should the balance be between ease of living/qol and the ability for organizations to leverage the same mechanics on the strategic level.for example, jump drives/bridges allow players to move quickly between points. this can be used by individual players to bring their nullsec good to highsec for sale, for courier groups to make deliveries, and of course, for massive supercapital fleets to smash many different targets across many regions (or used to).using that for an example, jump fatigue both limited power projection and made it slower/more expensive to live in sov null. it's generally agreed that this is a good change, and the \"collateral damage\" to residents was well worth it. is there a balance point where changes to mechanics use in sov-wars would impact \"day-to-day\" life too much to be worthwhile.on a related note, how big should the \"home-field advantage\" be for defenders of sov, on a grand scale? on a tactical fleet fight scale? on a roaming scale?"
"this is a really good question. at the current state of null industry in regards to gathering resources within null, it is dire. the good news is ccp recognizes that. right now, null depends on jita. as much as it would like to walk away, it can't. that is why industry related ships, like haulers, freighters and such have a nice -90% bonus to jump fatigue. it means they can still perform the necessary trips to and from jita to supply their efforts in null.once ccp is able to revamp industry side of gathering local resources to a level that makes sense, then such a bonus can be removed as it is no longer needed. i know moon goo is one of those things that is shipped to high sec and sold as an export, but i feel like that needs to be expanded upon. even parts of low sec and maybe even high sec could have some things worthy fighting for and controlling. such things could then be shipped into null. at the same time, it should be possible to find such items in other parts of the game, but no where near the occurrence in its native region.there is near infinite possibilities that can be done to make null space very desirable while at the same time, not making it 100% self-sufficient. trade is very important and creates opportunity's for conflict.as far as taking something too far, the answer of course is yes. this goes for everything in the game. you have to find that balance. for any new mechanic or revamped one, having several options as 'slider' where ccp can easily make small adjustments here and there that is capable of evolving with the meta and player population. jump fatigue has several sliders that can be adjusted. as i have said before, as long as we get a sov system that is occupancy based, one that is not dependent on grinding structures and immediately notifying afk empires their system is under attack; the jump fatigue will feel a lot better.right now everyone flocks to basically one major war front because anyone outside of a major coalition trying to take anything sends out a structure notification. instantly. the defending coalition has an insane amount of time to mount a defense and repel the non-bloc force that is trying to take just one system. if having sov meant an alliance actually had to utilize the system at some capacity outside of stabbing a tower on a r64 - then we would see blocs and alliances begin to spread out across their territory. if they didn't, then their territory would shrink due to it being nibbled away at by groups at the borders.and very important is it should not just be profitable to be active in these systems, but should be enjoyable to do so. players do whatever it takes to have fun. even if it means taking gates for 7 hours with capital ships to deploy to where the content is. the strain on their jump fatigue is soul crushing. but if the fun was only a handful of jumps away, you would not be stressing the jump fatigue left and right. there simply is no reason to cross regions at a time in a couple minutes to find what you are looking for when it is simply next door.then, we finally have a dozen or so different brush fire wars in null. conflict spread across many, many server clusters... which of course means far less tidi. of course this does not bode well for those who like to sit on a throne having 40,000 players at their beck and call. after all - why would anyone follow someone who is in no position to aid them from the other side of the map? more leaders, more blood in null, more conflict, more pew pew.jump fatigue offers a huge home field advantage. while the invaders are having to slowly trudge their capital ships across systems to get to your front door, your capitals are already there. some people complain that their capitals and supers were nerfed with jump fatigue, but they are looking at the glass half empty. as a defender using such toys, you can use them with the confidence that you will not be hot dropped by everyone and their brother from all four corners of the map in a couple minutes. this home field advantage scales up the larger the entity that inhabits the space obviously. of course the more people you pack into one part of your territory, the more open you leave the rest for another group to start another front where you don't have your heavy hitters. you will need to balance your forces out between ensuring a successful defense of a system and maintaining control of the rest.but capitals already on home defense under jump fatigue should not be the only thing out there that falls under \"home field advantage.\" it could be something wild like deciding how you want a grid to function in regards to effects similar to unknown space. perhaps the ability to lay mines because your alliance has sov? again, near endless possibilities. but it should never be so over the top that opting to \"blue ball\" is the best option and you hope the invaders give up."
"in the end defenders should want to fight. even outnumbered and or outgunned, there should always be a way to engage the enemy at some capacity. even if you still lose. bombers originally (or so i thought) were meant to be a tool for those outnumbered had something to fight back when massively outnumbered. but, it just turned into another tool for the large blocs to use to oppress small non-bloc entities.while there should be different things that fall under home field advantage, nothing should ever enable afk empires. if they are not there using the space, there should be nothing for them to use to keep a very small group, even just a corp of 5 pilots, from taking it from them without them knowing about it.use it or lose it."
"i've restored a couple of posts into this thread, and edited a few more.while criticism is fine, keep away from personal attacks, or your posteriors will be handed to you under the forum rules.keep it clean and civil people.ccp falcon || eve universe community manager || @ccp_falcon"
"are you sure you want to take on the responsibility of a csm. from what i understand, they tend to lose allot of playtime ingame.still you would be an excellent candidate."
"i am perfectly fine with this."
"marlona,i've really enjoyed your blog, your substantive posts on the forums, and, way back when, your flight of a thousand rifters (that was one of my first large fleet fights i experienced as a new player, and one of the only events i didn't die immediately in!). so, thanks! +1i guess my main concerns for every csm candidate are whether they will be able to 1) stay professional and 2) devote enough irl time to the \"job,\" both of which seem to be fairly difficult based on past/current csm history."
"that was an amazing time. i think everyone should do it at least once. glad you had a great experience coming into the game. be sure to checkout scott manley's video about it. there have been some who have been elected with a misconception that it was just a free trip to fanfest, epeen competition, easy work or something else entirely. so when they leave the csm early or at the end of their term, they tend to lash out openly that it turned out to be real work. from what i have gathered, you get out of the csm what you put into it. i plan on putting a lot into it.if it becomes obvious i am having zero positive effect, then i have no issue with stepping down and letting another person try a different angle. i want what is best for the game and the players - even if it means having someone else on the csm instead of me to get that job done."
"the potential that i see here is for a fob that is not directly tied to a moon. i like the idea of being able to set up shop in the deep black, rather than attached to a celestial. in sovereignty systems this would allow for more covert action, as the sov holder wouldn't receive the announcement that someone had anchored a pos at one of their moons. also, the ability to tear down and re-deploy at a moment's notice would be a game changer for small corps like mine with limited manpower. not everyone can have an army of alts at their command. everything i do, i do on my main.edit: i do agree that this makes more sense as an ore vessel than soe."
"the concept of a deep space fob was exactly what i was going for. have a scanner set up a safe and deploy this ship to operate from for a few people. i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"the nda can cause an altered mind set, meaning a blogger, podcaster or other eve media personality was about to comment on a topic but then either has to refrain or reword or alter his/her opinion entirely that he/she had in mind. sometimes this can be a good thing though, i often type a reply or view and leave it there not hitting enter, coming back later to look at the meaning/wording and if it conveys the message properly.for your example: not bringing up confluence because you assumed that particular site itself was nda.source:"
"the actual contents of the nda are, pretty much, trivial.'don't talk about things which ccp talked with you about, but hasn't ok'ed you to talk about'.as you might expect."
"after a while it can get kind of hard to remember where you heard things from."
"which is why you err on the side of caution. if not 100% sure you got info from someplace public, don't talk about it."
"ndas themselves are fairly boilerplate legal documents. i haven't seen ccp's nda for the csm, but i can fairly guess what the provisions of the csm nda are. very likely, unless there's a provision about the wearing of underwear during all times while communicating with the csm and ccp, the provisions of the nda are standard for any tech/gaming entity.that all being said, i sincerely doubt ccp would alter their nda even if it was made public and members of the community started having hissy-fits about certain provisions. it's a legal document, not a guide or a public accounting statement."
"no, i agree voting is always better than not voting. i just like to see it have the most effect. but i agree that voting is good, period.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"hail to ye fellow pilotsone thing i still missing is a countdown of the mission timer wich shows you , the remainting of the mission to complete.wich then looks actually like thisagent mission > timer countdown < directly to the right of itthen the usual infos as they are today .instead of clicking the mission details over and over again to see how long you have on time left for the mission.would be nice to see it in a upcomming update.best regards : fabionar crfc cic"
"they are looking for additional questions at the moment."
"just some advice, for csm xi, be more active in the community at large, you're not seen much on the forums, and most people ingame wouldnt even know who you are. as far as notable occurences go, i think the only community related event of note was someone being pissed enough at you to vandalize the monument, which prospective voters would only take away as you having done something to **** people off.so, its a little late for rep building, csm x is lost, for csm xi, should you choose to run, i say you should wander a bit outside your \"constituency\" and provide a little for the playerbase. maybe start up another npsi group, those are becoming popular again, or maybe organize players to make a new lowsec block, or hell, make a highsec industry empire for all i care.bottom line is, if you want a chance of election for csm xi, you have to be more public with yourself, and a little more friendly with people who share opposing or even differing views.yes, nullsec blocs get people elected by mass voting, because their leadership tells them who to vote for, that may seem unfair, but realize that the number of people who follow their word willingly, to the letter, says something about their personality and leadership qualities within the community, making political results from their choices completely valid and ok. theres is the power of community backing, and of social status, you're going to need to work on those skills to make it in any election.edit* some spelling errors were bugging me"
"if you think the csm is a popularity contest that requires the grinding of \"rep\", maybe your playing the wrong mmo."
"you really are something. it's almost like you are proud of how little you know, and desire to shout it from rooftops.before you run and fail next time, i'd suggest that you, before even starting your campaign, studies the election process a little. that will ensure that you don't trip yourself over claims that goons or other null sec entities have placed you lowest on their ballot list, and this is somehow to your disadvantage. you can also collect evidence for other points, so when you claim that so-and-so percentages of your constituency is female, you actually can show that to be true, and not, as we all know, an illusion you've made up all on your own.you might also, before you run, evaluate whether you want to scream \"foul\" when the candidate with many votes win over the candidate with close to no votes. as a joke candidate, i'm not sure you can grasp the finer details, but the general gist of any voting process is to determine which candidate has the biggest support among the voting population. for null sec candidates, that support is huge (and comparatively larger than other groups' due to what seems to be a voting null sec and a scarcely voting high sec), for you that support is close to nil.so, why is that? well, it can be for a number of issues. one is that, somewhat like parties in real life, the null sec candidates have established bases behind them, people who trusts the leadership enough to assume that whatever candidate they found, is the right candidate. you also have organisations that holds various forms of rallies, remind their members to vote, and make the process easy. you also have a generally higher quality with null sec candidates, who are selected for their eloquency, apparent intelligence, diplomacy, or competence in many other areas. with some candidates, their competence and their reputation outside their own, small, group, is what gave them enough votes to be succesful in their bid for election.obviously, these are both structural and personal assets that you don't have, or are unlikely to have.then you have further problems, such as your gaffe with yt videos that one time you ran, or the lulzsec hacking association, and posts in here where many of your claims are unfounded, and the rest are insignificant or simply the product of someone elses success and your lack thereof.so for many good reasons, the easiest way for you to get elected is to buy secondary accounts and vote for yourself with them, or to change character, style, platform, constituency and much more (and hope none recognises your name). both of these options are possible for csm 11."
"are you familiar with the term \"self-caricature\"?"
"popularity contest? i do believe it is indeed a mass-voter based system. and yes, if i recall, these systems rely on voter recognition, the key to which is being recognized positively by the voters, which does indeed require you to interact in constructive and bond-building ways with the greater community outside your 100-person \"constituency\".so yeah, you gotta \"grind\" rep, just like the mittanni had to, just like seraph had to, just like twostep had to, etc, etc, etc"
"the csm is not something you can twist and bend to fit your argument, everything you have said is not only incongruous but humorous when stripped of bias. i again suggest that you play a different mmo if grinding is your thing."
"please, elaborate for me, enlighten me. where did i go wrong in saying the csm elections were popularity based, and that past winners actually had to work for their reputation before they were elected. tell me exactly how either of those statements is false."
"thank you capstable.net"
"quoted for quality."
"i advised you about some of your corp having xenophobic comments in bio's due to you going for the csm, your response was to wardec my 1 man corp and block communications from me with the above comment! \"end of discussion and you talk too much\"would you say having a xenophobic tendency or allowing it in your corp/alliance puts you in a good position to be a csm candidate as a lot of eve players may find that objectionable!"
"+1 for bam.the difference between bam and everyone else is:bam doesn't have to make promises about what he will do for eve players in a future that has not happened.he can just point to the past and show what he has already done for eve players."
"bam has my vote and endorsement, he is without doubt one of the shining pillars of the au eve community. you can kiss my babies anytime bam!"
"+1, i know first hand how much work he puts into the csm, had him message me asking opinions on certain things, and has always been reachable for when i had concerns, definitely the sort of person you want all csm members to aspire to be like."
"was reading the csm minutes and just saw this part, \"corbexx asked about sites from different classes spawning in a given class of wormhole. for example,could you have a c5 site occasionally spawn in a c2 hole? and the other way around. fozzie said thatwith the new distribution system the way site spawns can change, and the csm discussed whether thiswould be good or confusing. the general consensus was that it would be fine, as players would look upthe different sites.\"major +1 on that idea corbexx.founder of violet squadron, a small gang npsi community! mail me for more information."
"bonjour borat et merci pour ta candidature et l'effort de t'exprimer tant en anglais qu'en fran<U+FFFD>ais.hello borat, thanks for your proposal and the effort to write in both langages.un point sur le changement des eula pour forcer <U+FFFD> lier les alts.jeune joueur (<10m skills points), jouant en microcorp, je n'ai pas d'alts : pas le temps, pas compris, pas les moyens... sur le fond, je suis d'accord. sur la forme, je pense qu'on peut trouver mieux.a l'instar des m<U+FFFD>thodes de police financi<U+FFFD>re qui traquent les flux financiers pour relier des personnes entre elles, les personnages devraient pouvoir traquer de telles donn<U+FFFD>es en jeu. moyennant une combinaison d'installations, d'accr<U+FFFD>ditation/r<U+FFFD>putation, de comp<U+FFFD>tences etc. cela devrait <U+FFFD>tre possible et tr<U+FFFD>s dynamique. on peut assez ais<U+FFFD>ment imaginer des mesures et contre-mesures, laissant pour des joueurs assez malins et exp<U+FFFD>riment<U+FFFD>s des zones d'ombres et de doute qui viendraient pimenter les choses, juste ce qu'il faut.ainsi, plut<U+FFFD>t qu'une contrainte hors-jeu, nous aurions des possibilit<U+FFFD>s de d<U+FFFD>veloppement en jeu de la partie espionnage.enfin, cela permettrait <U+FFFD> un joueur qui veut vraiment vivre des exp<U+FFFD>riences de jeu tr<U+FFFD>s diff<U+FFFD>rentes entre chacun de ses alts de le faire sans crainte.//(sorry for my poor english)one thing about request that all players link all their alts publicly by changing eula.i am a young player (>10m sp), playing in a micro-corp, with no alts: no time, no money, not understood yet!i globaly agree with you, but i think we could do better.looking at financial police, able to track financial moves/communications/ accross the world so that they could link peoples and eventualy prove crimes activities, eve characters should be able to develop abilities to do so in game.we could mix installations, reputations, skills etc. to gain access to such data and it would be really dynamic. we could easely imagine abilities and counter-abilities, let smart and skilled players enough shade and doubt to spice the game. so that, rather than an outside-game mechanics, we could get capacities of in-game developpement, specially for spy game.and then, it could let people who trully want various in-game experiences to do so with each of their alts."
"thanks/merci :)we have seen visible influence like input broadcasting be banned, as it was ridiculous to see whole fleets manned by only one player. this was visible, the community condemned it, and ccp acted.i am afraid that a few power players with a lot of in-game or out of game money affect the game for everyone else in a much less visible way by using large number of accounts, rigging some parts of the game to their profit.one simple example is afk cloakers. i play solo, and i need all the few alts i can pay subscription for to generate my in-game isk. sometime, when times are good, i can pay for those alts with isk. but i do need all my alts to be doing what they need to produce in-game. i can't spare an alt for days in a remote system, staying cloaky in order to paralyse activity there. only rich players can afford cloaky campers alts, as they do not produce anything for them directly. but they are influencing the game with very little risk and a lot of isk. this is just but one example of the potential influence multiple non-producing alts can wield.having all alts public from a change of the eula will make this influence more visible, and put a risk on the players that would chose to keep their alt anonymous to influence the game. nous avons vu une influence visble comme la r<U+FFFD>plication de touches <U+FFFD>tre bannie, puisqu'il <U+FFFD>tait ridicule qu'un seul joueur puisse contr<U+FFFD>ller des flottes enti<U+FFFD>res. c'<U+FFFD>tait une influence visible, la communaut<U+FFFD> l'a condamn<U+FFFD> et ccp a agit.je crains qu'un petit groupe de joueurs puissants et riches affectent le jeu d'une man<U+FFFD>re beaucoups moins visible, en utilisant un grand nombre d'alts anonymes, et en manipulant certains aspects du jeu <U+FFFD> leur profit.un example simple est le cloaky afkje joue solo, et j'ai besoin de chacun des alts dont je peux payer l'abonnement pour g<U+FFFD>n<U+FFFD>rer mes isk en jeu. parfois, dans les bonnes p<U+FFFD>riodes, je peux payer ces alts avec des isks. mais j'ai besoin de chacun d'entre eux pour faire le n<U+FFFD>cessaire et produire en jeu. je ne peux pas avoir un alt qui ne participe pas <U+FFFD> ma production, et l'envoyer par exemple rester cloaky dans un syst<U+FFFD>me lointain pour y paralyser l'activit<U+FFFD>. seuls les joueurs les plus riches peuvent se permettre de placer des alts cloaky, qui ne produiront rien directement. mais ils influencent le jeu sans grands risques et avec beaucoups d'isk. c'est juste un des types d'influence que de nombreux alts non-productifs peuvent cr<U+FFFD>er.rendre tous les alts publics parun changement des termes et conditions rendrait cette influence par un petit groupe de joueurs riches plus visible, et introduirait un risque pour ceux qui voudraient continuer <U+FFFD> influencer le jeu par le biais d'alts anonymes."
"i respectfully disagree, a good spy game should be played with multiple players, by having personal influences to turn smeone to your cause, rather than using anonymous alts with remove the need to interact with other players. je ne suis pas d'accord avec ton approche, car je pense qu'une bonne partie de l'espionage devrait impliquer de multiples joueurs, en infuencant d'autres personnes pour les ammener a travailler pour ton camps, plut<U+FFFD>t qu'utliser des alts anonymes qui suppriment le besoin d'interagir avec d'autres joueurs."
"because you found it necessary to put a knife in my back on another podcast, i will no longer vote for you.i have supported your campaign on csm9 and for csm10 i got you on the show again, and yet you found it necessary to disrespect me, something i never expected from you."
"answering these.we actually did discuss the question within code. \"do we want to take csm seriously, or field a joke candidate?\".i argued for taking it seriously. the at doesn't shape eve in any way***, so i didn't mind us not taking it seriously (although i wasn't involved in the decision). some people thought our antics there were hilarious, some thought they were childish. the actual story was that we missed the deadline to get higher skillpoint code. supporters (like myself) that were not formally part of the alliance into the alliance, and so the team we had to field was basically unable to compete to win. they couldn't deal with opponents tanking against kin/therm damage.we could lose graciously, or we could bet against ourselves and lose like trolls.on the csm, however, it's been a real issue that there isn't anyone on the body that understands the highsec predator gameplay mechanics well, and there also do not seem to be people that understand how risk/reward balance changes in highsec can alter the balance of other regions of space. for example, the tiamat anti-awoxing changes will result in increased safety for (the more careless) highsec miners. this will lead to an increased mexallon supply gamewide, and hence an increase in supercapital proliferation. a change aimed at highsec that has only tangential direct impact on lowsec will end up having significant indirect impacts on sovereign nullsec. it's a bad thing for the game that the current csm is comprised of (mostly) people that either do not understand this, or do not care.in this situation, it was easy enough for me to defeat the arguments of a couple of people (who will not be named) that wanted a joke candidate. i don't believe anyone in code. still supports treating the csm as a joke.*** - this was wrong. i still feel the impact of the at is minor."
"this sort of displays a lack of understanding of the organic nature of the sandbox, which is surprising considering some of your other statements. there's plenty of ways the at effects new eden...a)fits and comps used in the tournament can trickle into usage. b)the market surely is at least somewhat impacted by so many teams scrambling to pay the entry fee.c)at ships weave their lossmails into the rich, storied canvas of new eden. d)alliance structures may shift in response to be qualified, which in turn may result in meeting and interacting with people you wouldn't have normally, which obviously can have a big impact on the way you play the game.e)teams that do well generally have much more street cred than teams that run away like scared children, which impacts all sorts of things; is this fit good, is this a gang i should run away from? again, i would at least think twice about engaging a camel empire pilot, but a code. pilot? the butterfly effect does not just stop because you want to partition the at from new eden."
"i accept your correction."
"um. ugh okay, while it's nice to see code actually taking something that isn't ganking seriously for once, this sort of offends me.so firsties, i've taken to importing minerals to deklein, because someone's gotta do it. i have zero issues getting huge quantities of compressed mexallon bearing ores, and my largest buyers are our supercap producers. the ones that supply themselves also have no trouble. just an anecdote.second, some hard data?"
"the null sec part is under heavy nda. my piece on summit for eve/4 is nda checked by ccp today, so i hope it to go up. if you get excited by me is a thign you shoudl decide. i am on comms 350 days a year, always answering csm questions, my mail, twitter, and personal convoys are also always open. also cva forums hold updates on csm, or my allaince. its true i am no media attention freak. judging by the votes i think i represent provi very well. but rateht then to defend my self, feel free to chat me up one on one, rateht then a forum where peopel <U+FFFD>lways will find a stick to throw. atm i wrote my ccp internal first rea tion on sov, making eve 24 peice, lining upcap stabel and a csminterview, just got back from week with ccp, seing fanfest already on horizon, plenty of stuff to be busy with if u doubtfull i presesent you well, what woudl u thinks better, convoy me and chat with me, or post it in here? i can also quote a post of a fewllow csm member of goons who says how he sees my csm term, but in the end, u make your own judgement, or run for yourself, by all means"
"swiftboat? i'm not familiar with the term. i did not mean to stumble into something i was not suppose to know about. i didn't mean any offense."
"it's an american colloquialism for a political attack.from wikipediathat tweet has a fair bit of context. during the csm 9 campaign, jaynes target in the tweet put out a lengthy accusation claiming that jayne violated the eula/tos while metagaming because of how jayne implied he was someone else while using an alt character. the piece called jayne \"unfit for the csm\" due to this behavio. the supposed violation of the eula/tos appears, given jayne's consistent activity over the past year, to have been ignored by ccp as a whole. it was also the author of that article who used the situation to troll and throw out personal attacks towards jayne in his first csm 9 thread, which caused the isd to lock it. when jayne opened his second csm 9 thread, that same behavior continued by this person, with isd removing the posts for numerous rules violations. this context is useful in understanding what would prompt jayne to create that tweet. it has been roughly a year, if not longer, that jayne has had this single person obsessed with defaming him. this is the same person who supports doxxing of people's real life information. since its hard to determine if you were being sincere or not with that string of questions pertaining to the tweet, i'll err on the side of optimism and say that you were simply unaware of the context. simply put, to take that one tweet and ignore the year's worth (at a minimum) of context and say jayne isn't capable of composure is a fallacy."
"i have removed some rule breaking posts and those quoting them. please people, keep it on topic and above all civil!the rules:4. personal attacks are prohibited. commonly known as flaming, personal attacks are posts that are designed to personally berate or insult another forum user. posts of this nature are not beneficial to the community spirit that ccp promote and as such they will not be tolerated.27. off-topic posting is prohibited. off-topic posting is permitted within reason, as sometimes a single comment may color or lighten the tone of discussion. however, excessive posting of off-topic remarks in an attempt to derail a thread may result in the thread being locked, or a forum warning being issued to the off-topic poster. isd ezwal community communication liaisons (ccls)"
"a n00bie only zone could also create unrealistic expectations and a false sense of security. the rest of your platform is good."
"manny,how you you like to see supercaps/titans balanced and their future role in the game?"
"i'm still interested in whether this is what you were trying to say."
"these things fall somewhat outside my platform, but here are my thoughts:hisec in generalin general, i really like hisec. i know that may sound strange, but for me it is the only area of eve that always feels like an mmo. it feels vibrant and alive, with people who will respond to you in local instead of fretting over opsec. you can see interesting ships pass by and not **** your pants worrying they will yellowbox you.wardecs and gankingi don't have a problem with ganking, bumping, or wardecking in concept. these are all things allowed in the sandbox. however, i think the options available to the victims of these acts are poor, especially with wardecs. there is something wrong with a system when the best solution to an entity wardecking you is to quit playing the game or dissolving and reforming your corporation. primarily there is no fiscal incentive for most \"victim\" corps to fight out a war, so giving up is usually the least fiscally damaging option.as far as suicide ganking, the best suggestion i've heard (not mine obviously) was to change how security status affects you. that dropping negative will very quickly give you a suspect timer, because yes, ganking people constantly is suspicious! this makes it so that ganking is still just as possible as it is now, but one cannot cruise around with impunity until the millisecond before turning on his modules.cloaky campingi rely hugely on cloaky camping for my activities, so i have a lot of experience there. on the one hand, i think 90% of players overreact to having a single neutral in system. they imagine the \"worst\" and are paralyzed with fear. heavens forbid they lose a single ishtar! on the other hand, there should be some kind of counter to long-term cloaking. what about a deployable structure that disables cloaking within \"x' au around it, but requires active anchoring (i.e. you must sit at it to anchor it)? something like this could force the cloaky's hand, especially within a set area and time frame. but it also requires the launcher to correctly guess the camper's intentions (and also limits their own option to cloak).ultimately, i think cloaky camping should be addressed, but i don't believe it is a game-ruining problem that should be prioritized over other, more important matters.eve changesas far as \"changes to the game so far\" what time frame do you mean? because there is a big difference between changes in the last six months versus all-time changes to eve!"
"a deployable wouldn't work. if you were to deal with perma cloakies, it would have to be a ship or a module on a ship. give the players the ability to hunt cloaked people. while that would benefit the nullsec camp, it would mess up a good hunk of wormhole space. heck we'll have people inside a enemy hole for months watching their movements, trying to capitalize on what they do.giving them a defensive module that would destroy the scouts ability to scout... what effects one area of space, effects all area's of space, some with benefit, some with negatives. just be careful with what you may ask for, because it may wreck a different area of gameplay.fyi, good email to the corp last week. :-)keep up the good work. we need actual happy players out there."
"i support this product or service.but chance, how can you honestly say that changes like the addition of the jump fatigue mechanic have had no effect on eve gameplay? while it may have little effect on highsec denizens and players without the need or skill to use capitals, it certainly does affect basically all of nullsec, especially the blocs."
"let's go with since you started playing what changes have you liked? what have you not liked?"
"sorry not sure where you thought i said anything like that...? you quoted me asking which changes someone wanted me to comment on. indubitably jump changes have affected eve, i think only a fool would dispute that."
"i somehow misread what you'd written. i blame it on the cold medicine. disregard.i still support chance for csm x."
"you have my vote. the failed high sec antimatter delivery was hilarious.i'm also surprised to see my sec status suggestion mentioned on your platform. \o/founder of violet squadron, a small gang npsi community! mail me for more information."
"whoop, whoop more eve radio at csm!totally agree with your industrial views. mining is totally boring and the so called \"high sec\" is alot more dangerous than mining in null or even low in my opinion.industry needs to get more exciting or atleast not as boring as it currently is to be a feasable gameplay option.you have my vote and i am looking forward to see what you will do and change in the csm x."
"daww, thank you <3 much love. and don't you know it not too keen on the idea of nerfing the mining yield to be honest. but i do like the idea of a mini game, maybe a scan-able (like data/relic sites) belt that has sections that you have to \"crack\" to actually get the ore in there?that would be interesting i think. indeed! high-sec can definitely be very dangerous, i have actually felt safer since moving to null and mining, i agree there.thanks so much for the support!"
"erika my sweet, you deffo have my vote. you can pay me back at evevegas '15"
"aww, thank you orvis, and most def, you know i will be there! i've been ready for eve vegas '15 when the last one was over! hehe"
"keep it up, erika. hoping to buy you and orv a drink in vegas."
"you definitely have my vote erika!! not only do you know the game, you are a team player which is what eve online is all about!!go erika!!!***hugs***"
"aww, thanks <3 and yes you must! we will all have a drink together! cay! -hugs- thanks so much girl <3"
"you know, i might just vote for you."
"they say that the csm is the last stop before some players bail on eve. you won't bail after your terms, will you? cause i like your podacst too much to vote you out of eve.also, what do you make of the funky bacon mess?"
"both of those are excelent questions, and neither deserve an answer i can form at 1am with a drink or two in me. i will try to put out a full answer tomorrow. for now i will leave you with my tweet:"
"ok, now that i have collected some thoughts about this let me try to tackle these issues. ultimately my love for eve is less about eve the game, and more about eve the-people-who-play-this-crazy-game. i don<U+FFFD>t expect my attendance on csm to change my opinion of the eve community dramatically, or stop me from thinking of new things i would like to do to engage in it. while i can say nothing now that will prove how i will feel in a year, i have no intent that this will be the pinnacle of my eve life. a lot of podcasters/bloggers have become csm members in the past, with various amounts of success. however, i think that most that have made this transition were of the <U+FFFD>opinion<U+FFFD> type. i tend to try to be a more <U+FFFD>informative<U+FFFD> public personality (not that i am short on opinions ). what i can say to you is that if it does turn out that being on the csm begins to conflict with my enjoyment of eve, or my enjoyment of making content for you, i will simply not run again. as for the funky bacon post. i think this is more telling about his expectations for the csm than how the csm actually operates. there are plenty of people who i have known who are part of the csm and are happy with the collaboration they have with ccp. while the csm-ccp relationship is by no means ideal, it is trending in the right direction. design and development for a game like eve are enormously complicated. if you go into the csm thinking you will *get your way* because of the will of the voters, you are looking for disappointment. i am looking to help wherever i can because, let<U+FFFD>s be frank, this is an amazing game, and being part of the csm is an amazing opportunity. while i would love to see some of my visions come to life in eve, i am not so naive to expect ccp to bend over backwards to do so. i want to make things better, not show off how great i am."
"hello,i<U+FFFD>m thoric frosthammer. i am currently the chairman of get off my lawn, a founding alliance of the cfc coalition, and i<U+FFFD>m running for csm x. i began playing eve in 2004, took a break, came back with a new set of characters, and have been playing, with some interruptions, since 2006. there is very little of eve i haven<U+FFFD>t seen. i started in hisec, moved to nullsec to join friends in ascn down in feythabolis, and have since spent time in virtually every region of nullsec, with several nullsec alliances, large and small. there are very few things in eve i haven<U+FFFD>t tried. i<U+FFFD>ve been a miner, a pos farmer, a pvp<U+FFFD>er, a mission runner, a wormholer, an industrialist, and most recently a market manipulator. i have served as a director of many corporations. i have run spies and scams. my main focus at the moment has been guiding the unique group of folks known as lawn in helping anchor our portion of the cfc in fountain, and i have become deeply familiar with nullsec politics, sov warfare, and sov holding. i have been around for some of the biggest wars and battles in null history, from the first titan loss, all the way to b-r. i have watched eve grow as a game and as a social experiment.my breadth of experience, which includes everything from line membership to top level alliance leadership, hisec to nullsec, has given me both a deep appreciation for the remarkable achievement that is eve, and some deep skepticism about the directions that ccp is currently taking. i hope to join some of the other cfc representatives in pushing ccp harder to listen to the players that are at the root of eve<U+FFFD>s success.because i believe that eve, at heart, is about social structures, i am deeply concerned about a few issues:first, attention needs to be paid to bringing new players into the game and keeping them here. that doesn<U+FFFD>t necessarily mean dumbing it down or making it easier. what keeps them in game, from years of introducing new players to eve, is immediate access to a social network. players who become enmeshed in a group of friends or allies right away stay longer, in my experience. i would like to move ccp<U+FFFD>s focus from shiny ui and ship skins into the realm of engineering basic changes to the way new players are introduced to other players. i want to see changes that get someone who sees those shiny new <U+FFFD>this is eve<U+FFFD> ads linked up to other players in a way that encourages them to stay on past the learning curve, in a way much more meaningful than listening to the jibber jabber of an npc corp channel. i<U+FFFD>d also like to see changes to the tools available for corporations to recruit such players. the most viable entities in eve are those that know how to bring in new players and make them welcome. let<U+FFFD>s see if we can spread that knowledge, and to some extent make it implicit in game structure. more players means an eve that will last, so that all of us can continue to enjoy it. second, ccp needs to remember that they are at their worst when they start ignoring the wishes of their players. i have played virtually every mmo since muds were a thing, and they all fall down when they start believing their <U+FFFD>vision<U+FFFD> is so pristine that it has nothing to gain from listening to the thousands of players telling them they aren<U+FFFD>t enjoying it. ccp has learned this lesson more than once, but they seem to forget it periodically. i believe we<U+FFFD>re at another such point. some of the changes implemented, though i believe they are positive in general, such as the faster development cycle, have had the effect of insulating ccp from player comment, or giving them the impression they can safely ignore it. it seems to me ccp has been particularly aggressive in ignoring the input of the csm in recent years, while simultaneously holding it up to shield themselves from criticism. i hope to hold their feet to the fire. third, ccp seems to have a particular axe to grind at the moment against some of the larger entities in the game. these entities have been the most successful at creating a culture that brings people into game, and keeps them there. the answer that ccp seems to be pushing to prevent stagnation in eve is to break these successful entities apart, instead of learning the lessons of their success to improve the game. i<U+FFFD>ll say something controversial here that will no doubt earn me the enmity of certain factions of eve: stagnation isn<U+FFFD>t the fault of large coalitions. it is the natural result of game mechanics that reward risk averse behavior. that<U+FFFD>s where the focus should be. you can create good, rewarding mechanics that both encourage social structure and penalize risk aversion. this will drive conflict and content. this doesn<U+FFFD>t mean i<U+FFFD>m against the idea of creating a space for small and medium organizations. not everyone can be a goonswarm or a pl, or even a cfc or n3 member. not everyone wants to be. as the leader of a small to medium alliance myself, i am eager for opportunities that will allow an organization the size of my own to shine. but doing it at the expense of larger organization isn<U+FFFD>t going to grow the game. the larger orgs give something for the smaller ones to aspire to. they drive the greater meta of the game, and create a lot of the intrigue and movement that have kept the game fresh for better than a decade. my hope is that we can find a middle way that gives us all opportunity. i hope to earn your vote and be a strong voice for the player base on csm x. thank you."
"thoric for csm! [#savethelance]"
"here take my vote!"
"my vote goes to frosthammer :)good luck!!!"
"my name is bhock and i am one of the contributor of the capstable podcast.in early 2014 our podcast interviewed a great majority of the candidates for csm9 and we will be doing the same for csm10.here is our announcement:"
"!"
"as a proud member of lawn and the cfc i support frosthammer and hope you will as well. he clearly states his history and aspirations. we know where he stands and he will have my vote!"
"thoric frosthammer as a csm member would be a benefit to everyone in eve. you got my vote!"
"i'm trying to figure out how to not make this sound rude, but failing miserably. why should i vote for you over any of the other nullsec candidates? also, as a player that participates in conflicts on a smaller scope primarily in low sec, npc null and w-space, how would your ideas and support for large coalitions affect me? finally, since you mentioned new player retention in conjunction with corporation management and advertising, what are your opinions on the upcoming change to allow concord to interfere with corp on corp violence?founder of violet squadron, a small gang npsi community! mail me for more information."
"bebop:my ideas aren't specifically related to support for large coalitions. the point i'm making is that stagnation, and the lack of a place for smaller entities in nullsec, aren't the fault of larger coalitions. people are blaming the wrong thing. stagnation is the direct result of goals and systems that reward both n+1 combat, where the bigger blob always wins, and risk aversion (blueballing) when you can't win the n+1 war. there is also the general issue that, once you've taken a sufficient volume of space, there's simply very little reason other than \"because i feel like it\" to conflict with your neighbors. again, it creates a balance in favor of risk aversion, and elimination of conflict. larger coalitions will always exist, but what needs to happen is that reasons for smaller scale conflict need to be present, and systems need to be in place to overcome the tendency toward inertia. more movement, more conflct, these things create space for new entities to fill in the ecosystem of eve. this includes smaller entities.with regard to the concord changes, i am of two minds. as i've said, one of my goals would be to see ccp discover new ways to hook new players up to a social network as soon as possible. on one hand, the concord changes allow greater ability for hisec corporations to make themselves available as a social network for new players without fearing immediate loss or carnage. on the other hand, as i've also indicated, i don't like dumbing down the game. its longevity is directly related to its deep and complex gameplay. my take on the concord changes is wait and see. if, on balance, the social benefit and an increased number of new players living past the learning cliff outweighs the reduction in complex gameplay, it is a win. if not, it should be rolled back, as ccp did with teams. as to why you should select me over other nullsec candidates, i think perhaps i bring a new perspective that may be a little different than some of the voices you've heard before. i, and the alliance i manage, bring a slightly different style of community to eve and the cfc, and we've been pretty successful with it recently. i have also seen nullsec from virtually every side. i have been part of the small independent alliance finding its way into new space, the big, hidebound dinosaur alliance sliding to its death, the powerful juggernaut that is the cfc, and even a pirate npc space corp here and there on an alt. i have run an alliance and i've been a cog in the machine. i have a pretty good grasp of the full range faced by a wide variety of nullsec players."
"i've had the distinct honor of working with thoric in his capacity as alliance leader in the cfc. he has been a tremendous asset, and isn't afraid to make difficult leadership decisions. he leads a tight-knit community, which speaks volumes for his abilities. also his people throw amazing parties!"
"what are your views on creating alliances for people that give you abuse on a regular basis?"
"marcel tayn : i'll vote klapen for csm x"
"1.0"
"the new citricioni :phello, my name is dominik and i am 25 years old. i have played eve for a few years now and, in the past year, i started to work on some personal projects in eve. one such project was my corporation: \"stille gewalt\" which coincided with another project which is an npsi community under the same name.my primary focus in eve is low sec pvp where i engage in all flavors of pvp from small to large scale fleets which i achieve through interacting with the eve community through my npsi group.my npsi group has become quite popular amongst the german playerbase and the greater eve community. you may have joined one of our fleets or attended one of our events such as our carrier events. when i'm not doing community work; i am a low sec pirate, fc, corp ceo and alliance director for one of the largest alliances in minmatar space.whether i am flying the banner of my npsi community or alliance; i am dedicated to finding good content. if elected, i would strive to provide ccp the necessary feedback and suggestions to help guide the game into a content-rich environment for all types of players and play-styles.i believe, with my experience with interacting with the many different players and play-styles in eve, that i would be a prime candidate for csm x.thanks for reading,citricioni"
"so i've been giving a lot of thought to syndicate lately.syndicate is a very unique region in eve. it is npc null is situated geographically close to hi sec, which makes it logistically viable for an aspirant group trying to live there. it's proximity to active areas of fw also positions it well. at the same time, npc null is a great place to get your feet wet - none of the aggression rules and penalties of low sec or gate guns, and none of the overhead or hassle of sovereignty. one would think that these two factors would make it flourish with new life, new groups, and people just trying to live on the edge. dotlan routinely puts syndicate as one of the most violent regions of nullsec. however, if you think about it, this should seem very odd. why? compare it to any sovereign nullsec region; how much value in minerals, moon goo, dead space loot, and raw isk does that region produce on a daily basis compared to syndicate? what if we compared how much isk in losses a region generates compared to a composite value of how much a region produces? while i do not have hard numbers on this, and i would do a thorough analysis on them if i had them, i'd wager that syndicate would pretty much be king of such a metric; it destroys far more than it is capable of producing. now one could argue that the value and resources of sov regions cannot be so simply tabulated as they are spent on wars that span multiple regions, making this comparison a little unfair.however, it does make one think about syndicate's financial situation, namely, it does not have that many ways to fund itself; clearly there is lots of interest in the region, but on a whole, it cannot support that interest autonomously. more goes into it than comes out of it. basically it is a playstyle that is craved and desired far more than it is supported. compare that to faction warfare, which by and large does support the playstyle it fosters. now it would be a shame to homogenize it's resources with sov null; it should be distinct and different entirely. just that a bread and butter way for npc nullsec residents to earn income is called for. i realize things are not as bad in some npc nullsec regions via really good lp stores, but some of those regions are not as geographically viable as syndicate is, and barring player made star gates, they never will be.while you couldn't ever guarantee that any changes would have the desired effects, in an ideal world, you'd have the runaway barleguet effect in npc null - by putting resources out there in space, bottom up resources, you'd create a self feeding loop of content. think about the weekend after they released the mordu spawns in lowsec - how many people went to look for them, how many people went to go catch people looking for them, and how much content did it create? you just need to get the ball rolling, and space begins to fill up with people, reasons to set up market hubs, form alliances, and get rowdy."
"original post has been updates with additional information and refining of topics."
"in relation to your question regarding my views on previous wormhole candidates my answer is ad follows:there will always been room for improvement in everyones veiws of the same content. with that being said i have always been in support of at least one wormholer being on the csm. wormholes are a great part of this game and help make eve online the great game it is. i would rather at least have one of us in there than none :)"
"thank you o7"
"ok now there are more details, but it still seems like you dont know the wormhole playerbase...i'm not sure what you are getting at here.. you want more lowsec connections for cap movement? less so you dont need to close to pve? i live in a c5 with a low class static, i get a heavy high once a month for freighter usage, null secs for cap movements every day and low secs once or twice per week for cap movement too, for cap movements i scan out bigger chains and move them through multiple chains if i have to, for closing the null secs are more of an irritation. either way it looks like you want to reduce risk... (if it was for pvp in low sec, you would go down your own chain and use sub caps). if you want more heavy low sec connections, move to a c5 with an upper class static? (conflict drivers)ok, i know people living in both of those system types in c5 and c6 since hyperion, they are making it work. having holes which are \"better\" than others is a conflict driver, there are a lot of \"good systems\" empty currently, making the bad ones better isnt going to make more people live in wormholes and generate content.. its going to make it the same number of people living in wormholes, whilst removing the eviction content driver.p.s. can you please look up their effects since hyperion.. still seems you havent realised they have changed..wormholes are not high sec... and still they cater for new players with c1 and c2 sites, i started as a new player in a c3. ccp has made it easier to scan, removed the ore sites from scannable anomalies, made it near impossible to forget probes, made the astrometrics skill not limit the number of probes you can launch, etc. i think enough has been done for them...you want alliance bookmarks, that is a good thing.they make plenty of isk, just need to know how.. the problem is incursions give a brand new player much higher isk/hour, thats hurting the w-space population.--hit quote limit (5), will double post"
"i find them every day and there is the wormhole sales on the forum.. and the big addition wasnt over the years.. it just happened with phoebe.. -.-i know a lot of people who mine and live in w-space, their mining alts live in high sec because of the safety. creating more ore sites wont change that.---sorry but you seem way out of touch with the playerbase you claim to represent, guessing you have had a long afk from eve.. and wormholes.."
"if wanted to get into wh space but i always felt like it was kind of scary for newer people."
"can you please tell us what type of wormhole you been living in and what you been doing in the wormholes . tell us some more about you please."
"1. -derelict pos- i would agree that a mechanic to would allow taking over or forcing a tower to degrade(if gone unfueled for a period) would be useful and have been discussed. a lot of people, including myself use 'holding' towers on moons to secure them for militia/ alliance use. anything that opens up resources to players is good. adding or changing a dynamic that allows for small corps/ organizations to be proactive and organized is good.2. -catering to 'novice' style players- i would not advocating to adding game content or revamping mechanic platforms to suit a more 'lamen' player mentality. having said that, i will point out that i am not turning a cold shoulder to new players. i encourage recruiting new players into fw. it is the best way to learn pvp. i new player in eve is still amazed and intrigued with the game and the content, and that is an awesome thing. eve is a game layered with information and content, and then you add the social and political facets to the game and it is very easy to get overwhelmed. eve is not for everyone, and that is what makes those that remain so special.3. -csm council focus- my goal is to bring and maintain a voice advocating low sec pvp stability and interests in fw for all factions. null sec has far too long been the focal point in eve, and some of the greatest players and game play goes over looked and left to endure an outdated system. just implementing a few small revamps to fw/ low sec could add so much content and a more consistent mechanic that would attract more players and organization.4. -voter education- brother, honestly my game time is always occupied with militia and alliance ops, diplo, and chores. i am a slave to a list so long m8, it is even funny. i am going to have to pass the mic to ccp on that one. i think the responsibility of attracted voters and raising awareness for csm would fall to ccp devs. perhaps they want voter awareness to be low, so they can control the vote...who knows, it is eve. do your part for free elections! victor fw!5. -cats- yo!  cats! i have two outside that are huge, jungle feral hybrids, and one inside that holds it down. cheers!mo"
"1. -recon changes- i am in favor of the class changes. it adds a new depth to the class and adds tactical content to fw. 2. -booster range- i am fine with the current mechanics for boosters. attention needs to be applied to other areas.cheersmo"
"1. -opposition votes- true, i am and always have been an amarr loyalist. i do not think there is a 'neutral' fw low sec player. if one finds one's self with a militia tag, then one ceases to be neutral. my voice on csm....will not preach favoritism towards the empire, or advocate for buffs to energy weapons. my voice on csm, is to raise the awareness to certain low sec and fw mechanics that can be streamlined. it will stress the importance to ccp to not turn a blind eye to those grinding the low sec lanes in and out of concord cross hairs and raising the call to arms for fw. my platform promotes a more secure and stable war zone for fw players. thank you for your time, see you on the field brother.mo"
"1. -devs- again, drawing dev attention away from null to low sec and fw.2. -publicity- i think that being on the campaign road and the publicity for my faction go hand in hand. whether it is for good or for bad, that remains to be seen. publicity for any any faction is publicity for fw, and that is good.3. -warzone favour- being biased to my faction on the council would serve no purpose and be counter productive to what we all need to accomplish for fw.in summary, a few specific items are, the revamping of low sec pvp mechanics between fw and non fw players in fw sites. also adding content that promotes a more 'factional' dynamic. to tlf pilots i say, stay frosty, stay loyal. fight the good fight, for honor, for glory, for fw!mo"
"i apologize for the late response m8, thank you for your time.1. -fw missions?- to my understanding running the exclusive fw missions available from your npc militia corp do not sway system sov in any way. the lp may serve to keep a corps or alliances war chest full, but that should be a viable source for funding a war effort, as well as accumulating standing.2. -fw plexing?- true, there was a time when the 'plexing' mechanic in fw was broken, and a single fw site farmer could set a system to vuln in a day or two. thankfully those have been changed and fw is on the right track for greatness.mo"
"cap stable sat down with dave korhal recently for an interview:"
"i have removed a rule breaking post.the rules:31. abuse of ccp employees and isd volunteers is prohibited. ccp operate a zero tolerance policy on abuse of ccp employees and isd volunteers. this includes but is not limited to personal attacks, trolling, <U+FFFD>outing<U+FFFD> of ccp employee or isd volunteer player identities, and the use of any former player identities when referring to the aforementioned parties. our forums are designed to be a place where players and developers can exchange ideas in a polite and friendly manner for the betterment of eve online. players who attack or abuse employees of ccp, or isd volunteers, will be permanently banned from the eve online forums across all their accounts with no recourse, and may also be subject to action against their game accounts. isd ezwal community communication liaisons (ccls)"
"good luck marlona and love ya vid's"
"thanks!no questions for me?"
"i have removed a rule breaking post.the rules:5. trolling is prohibited. trolling is a defined as a post that is deliberately designed for the purpose of angering and insulting other players in an attempt to incite retaliation or an emotional response. posts of this nature are disruptive, often abusive and do not contribute to the sense of community that ccp promote.isd ezwal community communication liaisons (ccls)"
"pretty much this.ndas exist for one reason - to protect some party that needs to share information (ccp) with some other party (csm) to facilitate operation. that is their sole purpose. it wouldn't matter if you knew the exact provisions of ccp's nda to the csm - it's very unlikely they would change it, just because doing so could limit the protection of the data they're sharing, and that is not in the company's best interests.every nda i have ever signed boils down to the following:\"we are going to tell you things we would not otherwise share, because we have no choice. if you blab about this information, we will sue you so hard, we will literally own your dna.\"government ndas tend to include the phrase :\"...and possibly charge you with treason or violation of national security and lock you up for the rest of your natural life\".violating an nda is not something one does on a whim. the reprecussions may not necessarily stop at \"zomg perma-band!\"eve is like an addiction; you can't quit it until it quits you. also, iderno"
"the only things which are of any real interest to players (wrt the nda), are the things behind the nda. which aren't specified in the nda other than 'what we tell you'. and exposing /those/ kind of negates the whole idea of the nda.(and it's a constantly growing list. all the random chats in private csm/ccp channels are covered.)"
"is some of null sec too safe?possibly it requires more shrinking of null blocs, making them viable in less systems so more alliances can fit out there?"
"that i can agree with. the way you make it more dangerous is by allowing cloaky players their tools to compete with larger entities through asymmetric warfare. get rid of jump fatigue for cloaky ships/blops."
"yes, which is why i enjoy your attempts to run very much, it's like a car-crash, only it's political, happening in slow-motion, nobody gets hurt and i can go back and rewatch if i want. i know i haven't been supportive before, but at this point i would like you to run, again and again, because it's hilarious.so for the sake of everyone with a desire to laugh, please do continue to run.it's not every day we get to see such a perfect specimen of the joke candidate."
"i am sorry that you can't grasp the palpable irony of your statements."
"i hope you win just so i can see the car crash. then i can start a pool on when you would be kicked out, why you would be kicked, and what exsucse you give for being kicked. it will be fun, entertaining , and profitable."
"maybe you should update your sig then."
"yeah, i don't care that much."
"i think i can imagine how, just like this thread so far, the csm will be discussing a topic with ccp, xenuria will pick a fight with a dev walking by in the hallway not even involved, adn completely ignore all actual discussion happening in the roomon a related noteim still waiting for my answer xen about my complete misunderstanding somehow of how public elections work, because my highly inferior brain cant seem to see past this big illusion you can perceive so well about how a democratic election is totally not based on how many votes a candidate gets, and those votes being dependent on whether or not people like that candidate's history (because hint hint, that is exactly how elections work, waht you state in this thread as your csm goals mean nothing, all people care about is their prior experience with you, which so far means you have 3 groups, 1% of voters who are part of your \"100 man constituency\" you hang with that no one knows or interacts with, the about 80% who have no idea who you are compared to the other candidates, and the other 10% who only know you from the monument incident and and only know that you did something to make someone angry enough to commit a crime)and im not trying to troll or derail anything, ive asked you legitimate questions in an effort to help you and your chances of not only gaining a chair on the csm, but interacting with the greater community as a functional human being, all of which attempts i might add, were either ignored by you or were responded to with a very \"im not going to even try adn get elected\" holier-than-thou attitude"
"i can see it already! r.i.p cas in advance :p"
"you talk to much. csm posts are not the place to fight for your personal head spins. have issues with peoples bio, create a petition."
"@ torai am curious what your opinions are on hyperdunk ganking?"
"the real question on everyone's mind: does bam tie his kangaroo down?"
"we don't talk about rolf anymore... :\ and for what it's worth, i prefer my kangaroos free range. and then medium rare.but tying them down? those bros are tooswole.eve down under - a community for players in the autz"
"je me suis probablement mal exprim<U+FFFD>.mon propos porte principalement sur la carence in-game de m<U+FFFD>canismes de contr<U+FFFD>les/traques existants notamment sur les march<U+FFFD>s financiers dans le monde r<U+FFFD>el alors m<U+FFFD>me que parall<U+FFFD>lement eve poss<U+FFFD>de une approche relativement pouss<U+FFFD>e de l'<U+FFFD>conomie.de tels m<U+FFFD>canismes n'emp<U+FFFD>cheraient pas -amha- de r<U+FFFD>elles possibilit<U+FFFD>s de spy game avec beaucoup de joueurs. au contraire. un v<U+FFFD>ritable march<U+FFFD> de l'information pourrait m<U+FFFD>me <U+FFFD>merger. ces m<U+FFFD>canismes limiteraient cependant efficacement certains abus li<U+FFFD>s au multicomptes \"intensifs\" qui viennent d<U+FFFD>s<U+FFFD>quilibrer le jeu <U+FFFD> l'aide d'un artifice hors-jeu, sans qu'il soit possible d'identifier qui fait quoi, et sans pour cela avoir <U+FFFD> g<U+FFFD>n<U+FFFD>rer une r<U+FFFD>gle hors-jeu.selon moi, les r<U+FFFD>gles hors-jeu doivent <U+FFFD>tre la derni<U+FFFD>re extr<U+FFFD>mit<U+FFFD> d'<U+FFFD>quilibrage d'un jeu.donc, si je suis d'accord avec toi sur le fond de ta proposition sur la possibilit<U+FFFD> de r<U+FFFD>v<U+FFFD>ler les liens entre les alts, je crois qu'elle doit plut<U+FFFD>t passer par une <U+FFFD>volution des m<U+FFFD>canismes de jeu que par une d<U+FFFD>cision hors-jeu (modification des eula).//i probably didn't explain myself properlymy note is mainly related to the lack of financial tracking systems in eve whereas the game pretend to tend to a complex economical system. irl, those mecanisms do exist. they do not prevent spying. for ex. irl dormant spies still remain very difficult to spot.imho, those mecanisms would not stop spygame but in fact develop it. a data-market could rise.those in-game mecanisms would however limit strongly some abuses related to intensive multi-alts that unbalance the game, with the help of a out-game system. the main problem is that today you have no way at all to establish links between alts, as you would if it will be irl. with financial tracking systme, it would be more or less (need to be very well balanced) easy to find that a (main) transfered repeatingly isk to b, so that when you see b somewhere, you can figure that he is linked to a in a strong way -and may one of the alts of a.so, if a agree with you about the need to be able to know \"who's who\", i think it would be better if it rely on an in-game mechanism than an out-game/eula mechanism.note: however, i support your proposition. / je supporte n<U+FFFD>anmoins bel et bien ta candidature. ;)"
"c'est vrai que des competences d'investigations financieres qui permettraient de plonger dans les wallets d'autres personnages sans avoir besoin d'api pourrait en effet reveler des connexions sans avoir besoin d'artifices hors-jeu. cela pourrait etre une solution, mais il faudrait s'assurer que les traces de reventes des alts et les alts qui sont bio-massed restent accessibles.merci pour ton support!it is true that financial investigation skills allowing to dig into other characters' wallets without need for apis could reveal connexions without needing any out of game intervention. it could very well be a solution, as long as we ensure that data is not erased when an alt is sold or bio-massed.thanks for your support!"
"i too see people doing elite pvp in tinker-tanked t3s and unstoppable marauder flagships in tranquility. the innovation that goes on in the at has far reaching consequences indeed. the fact that everyone uses nothing but the drone meta shows how the at reflects and even dictates the general sentiment of the balance of ships and modules."
"meh, i used the word trickle intentionally, no need to jump on it. yes, you do actually see some rather heroic marauders on tranquility from time to time, as well as interesting solo-logi fits or other gimmicks, you just need to know where and when to look. obviously tranquility and the at are very distinct environments from each other."
"(minor edits made now that i'm typing on a computer, not a phone; the content is unchanged)marauders are *insanely* powerful in highsec; the only reason that they aren't fielded there much is that the entities who would fight over objectives in highsec generally prefer hit and run strategies. this is part of (non-gank) highsec combat's identity - you have fewer clues as to the capacity of the opponent to escalate, because there are always neutrals in system, and they might be out of corp alts of your opponents with standing corp invites they can dock, take, and be in combat with you inside a minute.additionally marauders are stigmatized as pure pve boats due to their history. prior to the introduction of bastion mode their purpose was to combine 90% of the pve capabilities of a vindicator with 50% of the utility of a noctis. this has now changed. marauders, broadly speaking, outperform pirate faction battleships in general pvp engagements in highsec if properly fitted (unless your entire operation is based around playing to a unique strength of a pirate bs).the strengths of marauders, however, do not suit other areas of space because they are extremely soft to capital ships. they are still underused.this is an interesting digression but i reiterate my point - i was wrong to claim the at is irrelevant but the original argument - that code. regards the csm as too important to eve to troll - remains."
"you have the support of all my accounts. highsec needs a voice from someone who will not dumb it down."
"nothing in eve is too important to troll.just had to add that, sorry. carry on folks, vote sabriz!"
"i understand most of the discussions around nullsec sovereignty discussions between you, the rest of the csm, and ccp are restricted under nda, but your ideas are not. even disregarding sovereignty changes, you are free to tell the whole world about your specific contributions to csm and your specific ideas for csm x should you be reelected to a second term, regardless of the subject matter.unfortunately, you still haven't answered my question and haven't given me a single specific idea or contribution you made to csm ix, though you keep referencing the en24 article. i sincerely hope that will answer all the questions i have about your candidacy and platform, however, i won't hold my breath.regarding your displeasure with me posting on a public forum and your referencing your regular posting on the cva forums, cva hasn't found us worthy for positive standings, and so our proviblue alliance is denied access to their forums almost entirely. regardless, i believe any dialogue between a csm candidate and a his or her constituency should be a matter of public record. i believe your platform should be too, and that is why i post here without giving a thought to mailing or convoing you in game, regardless of your availability.as i said before, i look forward to that article and potentially a more specific answer to the question i've been asking: what did you specifically contribute to csm ix, and what do you intend on contributing and advocating in csm x should you be reelected?"
"made piece on eve24 about wintersummit and other stuff"
"loved the"
"your en24 piece throws out some ideas for nullsec, but the emphasis seems to always be on more. as i understand it, one of the major problems in sov null is that there's terrific income for people who can run the 8/10s and the 10/10s, and who get to them in time, but there's not much for the average line member, especially if they're new.you hear people talking about moving mission agents out, which would solve that problem, but from the csm minutes it sounds like ccp wants to move away from missions.so what you would you think of this: there is a more or less static average wealth/hr available in nullsec, one way or another. the more settled the space is, the more consistent the income is. the less settled it is, the spikier it is--in other words, the wilderness would have long odds but potentially vast rewards, while settled space would support a more consistent income, with the two averaging out to more or less the same over time. this would support people living in sov in the most important way, while still offering an untamed-wilderness vibe for explorers to enjoy.comments?"
"thank you for the support everyone. special thanks to those who have worked so hard to help bring the election and candidates to the player base at large. the amount of time and effort you are putting into this is absolutely amazing.my application is officially submitted for csmx. i'll see everyone at the poles."
"npsi fleets like spectre managed to keep me in the game after i had quit out of rage.i'm happy to see someone like jayne run for csm, he has my vote."
"pardon me if i'm intruding on any discussions, and also for attempting to fight jayne's battles in his own thread, but i strongly disagree with you. i've flown with npsi groups like spectre for the past few months, and i would agree with the fact that they're political entities, but they behave on an entirely different wavelength than the big coalitions like the cfc. as far as i can gather after flying in these fleets, the only clear goal npsi fleets have is to generate content for anyone willing to take the time and put forth the effort of joining up for a fleet. which is unlike big political entities like the cfc or n3, whose goals are to make money/control sov/etc. i'm not going to pretend like there is a 0% chance that jayne could have some ulterior motives in his campaign, but coming from someone who understands these things to some extent i have trouble imagining what exactly those motives might be, if there even could be any. also your initial argument on npsi communities evolving into only two power blocs is flawed as well. there is plenty of crossover that happens between the different npsi channels, a la spectre advertising for bomber fleets in the bombers bar channel or spectre getting notified when an rvb ganked event is starting. not to mention that there is also crossover between public fleets with different goals. for example, recently bombers bar (a specialized pvp channel) and warp to me incursions (a pve channel) did a co-operative fleet. this kind of thing would be incredibly unlikely to happen amongst the big null blocs. i still have yet to find two competing npsi/public fleet channels that have bitter rivalries against each other, to the point where they have to send in spies to see what they're working towards. a more likely dystopian situation is that they would all clump into one group, which is also unlikely.i agree that a lot of jayne's points center around benefiting the npsi community, but isn't that kinda the point of the csm? to try and benefit the type of gameplay you enjoy the most? i'm not gonna play the fool and say helping the npsi community carries as much weight as the need for the sov rebalance or the need for changes to hisec, but i can directly see how these proposed changes would benefit the npsi community, which is more than i can say for some proposals i've heard."
"i think temporary standings inherited from somebody or not have a big potential for abuse ... disguising as blue, neutral, red by just having the right fleet boss or setting a flag. also a mechanic like this would foster corps to be more restrictive in regards of their members joining npsi fleets. what makes sense imo is to allow additional mutual standings towards other fleets (\"trade standings\")."
"i have removed a rule breaking post.the rules:5. trolling is prohibited. trolling is a defined as a post that is deliberately designed for the purpose of angering and insulting other players in an attempt to incite retaliation or an emotional response. posts of this nature are disruptive, often abusive and do not contribute to the sense of community that ccp promote.isd ezwal community communication liaisons (ccls)"
"application and id scan submitted... its all official we're in the race.embrace your immortality & vote khador vess"
"hi all, i am e'pock, co-ceo and founder of tssoc. erika has always been there for everyone that has needed help, she goes above and beyond to help every member, veteran or new player. i think she would be a great csm. i approve this message and will gladly vote for her because she has what it takes to be a great csm because she is a great person. i met her in person at eve vegas 2014 and she is a great person and a great friend. yes i use great a lot here but there is no other word that can compair to decribe her. go erika for csm!!!!!!"
"aww, thank you so much pock! that does mean a lot to me <3 thank you so much! i will need to buy you a drink on me when you come back for eve vegas this year!"
"yumene is a person who's always hanging around to help. also she's a good and decent human being."
"you know i am thank you brad <3"
"were you affiliated with the following?j234421 < lawn wormhole specialists back in 2011. i think they were pretty inactive by then.if so, you'll be on my ballot for the nostalgia i am feeling.we removed you... :)"
"thoric, you have my votes too :)"
"i like him. wait, wha..?"
"no, my wormhole period was unaffiliated with lawn or that corp :) i just hung out with a small group of friends. you may well have obliterated us however, we were p.awful~"
"good job on the interviews. thanks !"
"yep, great job on the interviews guys."
"more of a roundabout meta question for you xander.what qualities in a candidate do you think makes one the most electable? what qualities would actually make a candidate the most effective once elected?and makes a candidate good to work with on the council as a team.are any of these qualities mutually exclusive."
"i didn't vote for xander in the last election. i thought his personality was to explosive for the csm. he proved me wrong and i will be voting for him this time around."
"thanks for the great questions angry.qualities that make a candidate the most electable? well without putting too fine a point on it, being a senior member / candidate from a 0.0 makes a huge difference. whether it is fair or reasonable or not, if you are the candidate in a 0.0 bloc, that trumps just about any other quality. it's the nature of the beast.i think though the question you are actually asking is 'what qualities would i like to see in a candidate?' before they are even elected, i like to see someone with a proven history of interacting with the community. whether that be in alliance forums or twitter or a blog or here on eve-o or whatever - i like to see someone who has went out of their way to interact with other players outside of the game.i personally like to see someone who understands their particular fields of the game (anyone who tells you they know everything about every part of the game is lying), is able to back up their own particular point or argument when necessary but also understands how to listen to opposing arguments and back down with it is correct to do so.they need to be able to communicate effectively with other council members, ccp and the player base while also being able to effectively prioritise what is important in any situation. they also must understand that they will almost certainly be working with someone in the other 13 members who have distressed them in game in some way. being able to put the meta aside is imperative.and understand that you will need to work hard at certain times, particularly around summit. that was doubly so when we had to do the minutes ourselves.i think that kinda answers questions two or three as well but i am more than happy to answer any follow-ups you have angry.as to whether they are mutually exclusive. well put it like this, i am of the opinion that there are no 'perfect' council members on csm9. some get (a lot) closer than others but we all have things we can improve on - we are only human. i'd like to see all of the above in a council member but i realise that i myself am not perfect and try to be tolerant in the foibles of others."
"much better intro, thumbs up!"
"all excellent questions. for starters, were you aware that csm members are heavily discouraged (functionally banned) from saying anything negative about another csm member in public regardless of truth value? as for the rest, i will likely treat it elsewhere at length. this isn't to be dismissive, instead there's a great deal about the csm that i have yet to say and as yet haven't, and most of it ties back into these admittedly difficult problems."
"one of my previous accomplishments:bookmarks on grid show up in tactical"
"i have spend most of my wh live in both c5s and c4 wormholes. i been in them for quite some time. as far as myself i have been in a few different wormhole corps probably my most know would be the aesir. i came into possession of that corp when dmitry wizard stepped down as ceo.some personal information about my self would be that i am 22 years old and i am nearing the completion of my computer science degree. game have always been a large part of my life and so has eve online."
"well this is one of the main points of my campaign :) i do agree wormholes can be very scary"
"i'm friends with dmitry, and knew the aesir from the ragnarok days, but i don't think i've ever dealt with or heard of you, unless you are running on an alt. i'm on my last leg of the game, but i've been in very active in wormholes since their inception, and i am skeptical of your experience. personally, if i saw your corp history alone, i'd say you look like an alt. but to each their own. i'll discuss my thoughts on your ideas below.i lived in c5's for a loooong time, and if we really wanted content, we could always make it. if you are having issues with content in your wormholes, it may be the people you're playing with... i think you may need to diversify your experience before proposing changes like this.i don't support the concept that wormhole effects need to be \"balanced\" to be more aligned because they don't want to diversify their skill training. wormholes aren't rookie mode, and to be \"good\" in wormholes over time, you should have a more diverse skill portfolio. in my time in wormholes, i've flown tons of various doctrines and ships, and when our guys wanted to play in a particular \"bonus\", we would create ship/fleet comps for a doctrine, train for it, and test it. game mechanics shouldn't be altered in this case.no. create a better scanning/exploration/(maybe wormholes) tutorials or missions, but absolutely no changes to wormholes to make them easier for new players. it isn't \"new player\" content, so if they really want to live and play in wormholes, go for it, and learn through the losses. the best wormholers/players learn through loss."
"i have almost always lived in wormholes with other corps within the same alliance, and i do agree with you that it is clunky and needs work, but we always found a way. in this case, i'd like to see your thoughts on changes just to see your perspective better.corbexx and his focus groups have already done a ton of work to help with lower class wormhole pve and improve viability. as it stands though, growth naturally pushes groups into the higher wormholes. i started in a c2 in '09, then a c4 in '11, then c5 '11/12, then c6 in '12. then we bounced all over as mercs and such just having fun. but mechanic changes don't need to be installed to make groups go into higher classes, and some groups prefer the lower classes.need more detail as to what \"exactly\" you want here. i don't think diluting the wormhole population by created a ton of wormholes is a good idea. some increases, based on checking stats and metrics on population and classes/bonus's, might be fine, but dilution is dangerous.this is good. also, add ice belts for our \"scratch\" players. some disagree with me on ice belts, but this is a personal preference. look forward to your feedback."
"thanks rob for writing down your minds. i do absolutely agree with you.@ bane cortex: sorry i can<U+FFFD>t say how much i disagree with all of your ideas except alliance bookmarks."
"dear bane cortex, i m glad that you want to pick up the torch where many other big names have left their mark.and i shouldnt be interested into this topic, but by bobs dead hands, what the actual fudge. your proclamaration sounds like from 2 years ago and and you smell like a carebear. but we can fix this because you could be what this place needs to finally be like incursions.so lets have at it shall we:. there is a definable issues for corps living in whs mostly c5s with the randomness of the spawning of lowsec entrances to holes. this make corps living in these worm holes have to go through great wait times to be able to get to any content.okay i may be tripping here, but are you saying that an open lowsec connection is a problem for a local populus? in extend if a low connection is up you cant do anything? i always considered them great for capital and logistics purposes and some even use them as a good source of pvp, i mean thats why people go to the jsigs to have pvp right?or are you saying you need more connections for more pvp because that kinda seems to work for thera and i highly endourse that. since lowsec is kinda semi good small gang micro pvp. but lets move on\"a large latency with spawn times on combat sites as well\"are you saying the provided isk in class 5 wormhole is not enough? in extend are you fudging me? man you really want to reawake bob right? by besus butt please tell me you have thought about exploring the options of isk your connections give you. if not i m tending to sense a carebear and thats an unwanted title for a csm, yes he needs to know how to make isk but making more isk as a \"campaign\" point ... i m beginning to think you are not so long in wormholes as you may think... - make wormholes more accessible for new players scanning changes (odysee), corp bookmarks, 3rd party mapping tools.,.. there are soooo many good things that are aimed at new players and new players are using them. class 1 / 2 is great for the minor explorer. new players are coming into wormholes ... sure most of the time they end up as dead afk heron on the highsec but they are there. but i honestly doubt that any new player has the solo ability to come in set up a pos and go beserk.. i mean ... skilling a good dread for wormholes takes litterally years... how deep should they go if they only can fly a cruiser?which brings us to the next point we kinda need to talk about and i almost flipped my fudge reading it because i had to read several times.i would like to see c1,c2 and c3 whs be viable content for players.now you are just shitting with me right? right!i will just say this: people have ******* carriers in c1 and c2 space... and considering the enviroment i would say thats ******* legit.you see lossmails of 2b legions dieing in c3s while ratting. you really think those people wouldnt do that and die if it wasnt worth it?\"i.e.: corp bookmark issues\" fix that into \"ccplease alliance bookmarks\" google it its a thing...fix ore sites hahahaahaahahahahahahahaahahahahahaa sorry i dont want to go into metrics but its a fuckton, if you break it down actually besides not having ice the other minerals are supplied in abundance which ... i bet that there is more off then in all of nullsec.my question is: how long do you live in wormholes to consider yourself a longtime wormholer? because your ideas are more blend then anything else .may bob ashes have mercy with your soul.i ve been away for over a year... quite happily depressed nullseccer now and i would have more potential to be csm then that ... so before you say i just attack and be mean, lets see what you actually should take care of to be a csm!your platform as it stands is actually lacking any understanding about the \"culture\" that is now imposed under the whcfcnot once did you say bob, but thats actually a minor. did you ever have a sit down with other corps like fcftw, noho or csms or small c2 corps to listen to their issues? can you pinpoint your agenda regarding the changes behind the mechanics you deem changeable and why? best explained by spreadsheet. and lets get on lazerhawks level and throw fudging stats out... have you ever had a constructive discussion on the wormhole forums? but lets conclude this rage fest because ive been bottleing it up to not post anything wormhole related .. kinda cant stand the place... (hi everybody)here are my questions which actually matter:- why did kill it with fire saw winter coming?- why is the n silent?- why is the venture the most overpowered ship in wormholes?- why didnt you talk about nomads as a potential \"prospect\"?- why did mobile structure had such a double edged impact on wormholes? and where do you see the future?- why arent wormholes anomalies? (its gonna happen)- why is maxdel so scary?- who is bronya mothertouching boga and whats the deal with mister long penis? in extend did you ever try to talk to longinous spear?- thera boys and following up on thera?- jovians?- why is corbexx so handsome and jack miton not posting?- what dusette is the sexy one?- what did pell helix saw coming?- where were you when wspace was burned to the ground?- who owns the system with the most freighters deployed in space?- why is it guten tag, *********. when you meet aztec?- what impact do you see for the t3 changes?hello i am bert and i stopped this **** in 2014 sorry./waves at proc \"dropping nukes and walking away since 2012\"community-challenge: make jack miton sing a duett with me."
"+1 gl"
"since one of the primary unofficial duties of the csm is to generate drama for the entertainment of the average player, the number of deleted personal attacks in this thread should be an excellent recommedation."
"the measure of a 'man' is both made by those who love and those who hate him (or her)mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"so many isd posts in here you would think they were the one running for csm. i'm glad they are smiting the trolls in here though. if anything it assures me my views on shaking up the stagnation of the game is in fact the right path. still, i find it funny they have nothing outside of personal attacks to hold against me."
"you want to avoid the law, find niches in the judicial system to get what you want? fine, i have no problems with that. but war declaration is an official way of going at someone with guns blazing and should thus cost substantial amount to discourage war-spamming. if a particular alliance can have 100 wars active, there's something very wrong with the system."
"i fail to see the reason why you would want to limit the number of active wars. ccp has introduced many mechanics to drive conflict, and one of the biggest gripes people have about the game is political stagnation - i.e. people not fighting each other like they are supposed to. wars are not a problem to be fixed - they are a mechanic for conflict generation and as such should be nurtured, developed, and expanded. if you personally, for some strange reason, actually dislike wardecs, then you are in luck because ccp has already thoughtfully provided you with a whole list of options for avoiding, evading, nullifying and rendering irrelevant any wars that might be declared against you."
"missing a guide where to build and how to arange building tians and s. a lot of mumbo jumpo to pick up out there."
"steps to build a ...- own a 0.0 system (if you do not, conquer or rent such a system)- erect a large pos- equip pos with capital arrays- mix necessary materials into capital arrays- wait for to bake- in a few months (yes, a few months) you will have a brand new ... a ship that cannot dock and requires round-the-clock care of an alt character.i hope you have friends. :)edit: also... this is the wrong forum section for this kind of question."
"how is formed? how pos get csaa?"
"okay son... when a titan-flying capsuleer and a carrier-flying capsuleer love each other very much..."
"thread closed."
"if you don't have any questions or statements on topic than please don't post in my csm thread."
"people have asked several questions witch you 1) ignore 2) say troll 3) convolute it to a no one likes me cuz i'm awesome so there is little point to post a serious question here."
"answering loaded questions can be seen as engaging flamebait. i have no desire to violate the forum rules. if these same people want to ask questions that don't have anything to do with my irl profession or any other creepy personal stuff than i will answer them.example:a. xenuria, being a big poop alien how do you feel about x <--- wrongb. xenuria, how do you feel about x <--- righta. xenuria, you have been involved in alot of poop related incident and im aware that your a lizard alien from planet bazongablarg, how do you feel about changing sov or being csm given your background in being a poo lizard, <--- wrongb. xenuria, how do you feel about sov? <---- rightdoes that clear things up?"
"and we are still waiting......want to find all the podcasts around eve online visit"
"i dont know about the rest of us, but all these current csm guys \"bashing\" on xenuria, makes me want to vot xenuria!but then again, thats just me and i dont care about voting anyways"
"you have just been emasculated sir."
"that sounds somewhat................... painfull"
"they are upset that i am not given their insults the attention they feel appropriate. the isd normally show up just before this thread turns into a huac meeting."
"ah that explains it!"
"when did i insult? when i read back to you what you said to us? all i asked was why/how do you believe yourself qualified for the position when your greater community presence is so little.you refuse to answer this because the only answer you can give is not beneficial to your campaign, so you choose to ignore it rather than take the other advice i gave you. that is to recognize you do have a barrier to csm entry that is not being set by the \"big bad alliances\" trying to \"shut you down for speaking the truth\" or whatever it is you argue these days, the barrier you have is that you do not participate in the larger community, so you do not have enough peopel who even know anything positive about you to get the votes you need.tl;dr realize you have a problem thats easy to fix before csm xi, get involved with the larger community, train noobs, make forum posts, get to know big named people, and for the love of whatever deities there may be, just try and make friends once in a while, put the holier-than-thou attitude in check and just get drunk with some fellow eve players and go on a lowsec roam or something"
"in my opinion ganking should be a group thing, which takes effort. hyperdunking isnt my favorite thing in eve. but since my campaign is about more evil, i am not against it."
"reminder: all forum rules must still be adhered to in csm campaign threads.i have removed an off-topic/trolling reply."
"the cap stable podcast sat down with bam stroker recently for an interview. you can listen to it here:"
"+1this is a no-brainer"
"dude (tyrant scorn), you're such a douche, he was praising me for being a man about a situation that puts your podcast on the list that i run for the community. i did it because my site is for the community as a whole, so i disregarded your arrogance and egocentric attitude and put your podcast on my list. even though personally, i don't like you. so if you're not going to vote for him because he praised me, well you're seriously (in the words of the legend ernie harwell) looooooooooooooonggggggggggg gone!i can easily remove unnamed podcast from the list. if you so wish. i have no problem with that. just send me an email on my site listed in my signature.want to find all the podcasts around eve online visit"
"firstly, he never named you. pukin and harry did.second, mike was giving chyph3r credit for doing right by the community and giving you media links on his site despite past personal feelings. personally, i doubt anyone cares about your \"endorsement\" any less than my own. but seeing as how your defensive victim complex has reared it's ugly head yet again, you're giving credence to why chyph3r is, in fact, the bigger man here.easier to throw a tantrum than take a minute to comprehend, eh? eve community blogger - the eve editorial -"
"pro tip (for newbros) to be good at eve you have to vote for mike azariah for csm, because if you do, his awesomeness will just magically enhance your gameplay. no joking!!! his awesomeness is retroactive as well.pro tip (for veteran players) voting for mike azariah will not make you win at eve, because voting for him actually has the reverse effect. winning at eve = not playing the game... duhprot tip (for bitter old vets) htfu and just vote for mike azariah. your going to do it anyways... you bitter old fork harri and chyph3r are going to do it and so should you.pro tip (for all pilots) mike azariah is not in the cfc, nor has been been assimilated or emasculated by the cfc as some may have accused him of. his \"magic school bus\" program is legit and is not a scam even though he has a huge bounty placed on him as a gimmick by many of us in the eve media. just recently, mike azariah has been wrongly accused of betrayal by a non factor in the eve media who is the host of \"legacy of an a**hole podcast\". that person owes mike azariah a formal apology for being incompetent on his fact checking and for letting his personal bias toward another podcast taint his comments towards mike azariah. lastly, if i wasn't married and i was batting for the home team... i would certainly do mike azariah!! however, i am just going to have to settle with voting for him with all my accounts... even the extra accounts that i just renewed in order to vote the cfc block list because my \"dear leader\" has ordered me so."
"you will get my votes core!free ts3 hosting"
"i am glad that there are people like core who have true passion for eve. passion which extends well beyond just playing the game. investing his own spare time in parallel with family and job is a noble thing to do. lately discussed funky bacons acions clearly shows the reasons a particular csm member was there. to some their own agenda and attention seeking stunts are more important.i am happy to see that core is nothing like that. hes actions show deep love for the game. the fact that he is keeping a positive mature hardworking and joyful attitude towards everything despite the fact that it takes huge effort to be on csm shows that he is doing what he likes. at the same time he's always being open and forthcoming to questions regarding the ccp and csm affairs. i have huge respect for what he does and i frankly can not imagine where he draws such an energy from to do his job, raise the family, run fleets and yet have the clearness of mind respect and will to actually help ccp with steering the game towards improvement.i will vote for core because i feel that he is not only representing the player-base towards ccp but allso ccp towards the player-base. i believe that ccp is gaining from this relationship which means that well have a better game and even more fun! o7"
"it nice to see you running again sugar. you have my vote."
"personally i don't understand what you're bringing to the table if you were to be in the csm except for an increased interest from the general player base towards the csm. all of what i've read so far from you in this post is basically claiming your views are the same as those already released by ccp or other players. i want to know what will you actually be bringing to the csm when it comes to suggestions, your own suggestions, for gameplay development?"
"why is this wrong? as soon as these people join a corp or organize in an alliance, they have marmite, forsaken, deadly fingertips, pursuit and so forth on their heels and cannot do what they want to do. people already tell stories about incursion communities like tdf, isn, tvp and what not. why should they further condense into something that gives them no gains?if i as a business oriented person want to make profit, i do not want to risk -- under the current horrendous corp/roles/title system -- to give other people the slightest chance to ruin it from inside. i cannot give people specific and restricted access to anything in a corp other than fully open or not at all, which opens the floodgates to my demise and their victory. however, i am not interested in my demise nor am i interested in providing others with content where i pay for it and don't get anything other than ridiculing in return. so, why should people join corps if this will only expose them to other high sec camping people as soon as they raise their head just a micron too high? believe it or not, i am in such a position with my activities on a weekly basis."
"look. another csm candidate who wants to be space famous."
"i am already famous enough for my liking. now is the time to put notoriety to good use."
"this guy inspires, create content, and he does it with humor, smiles and a bit of sarcasm. but better yet ... not corrupted by *bittervetness* and negativity !!people actually like being blown to pieces by this man - because he has passion! we need new eyes, new blood, new strength in csm ! ... its a new dawn, a new age, a new expansion cycle ! i do not believe you need to know every aspect of eve, thats why there is more than 1 csm! you need passion and an open creative mind, more than playing years .... my vote is going towards the innovative positive progress of eve ! - chance ravinne // norsel outo7"
"besides being a nice person she is a single woman ...we have a clear winner here !"
"*just sits and shakes her head* lol, thanks for the support"
"i will definitely look forward to the mining and mission changes you want to get in."
"thoric is a stand up guy. he has my vote."
"you seem like a good dude. i'll be following your campaign.may have a list of questions for ya later, o7"
"thoric for csm :)"
"do you support justice for #hml's and #rlml's?"
"that i still do it even though cyber calls me names :(by creating justice for them, they need justice and i am the batman."
"\"marcel tayn : i'll vote klapen for csm x\"- karleigh greg jespen"
"most candidates have signed up for a cap stable interview by this point, although they're understandably swamped as far as getting them edited and published.unfortunately, there's a fairly large number of candidates that haven't yet participated in foo's short answer questions at"
"i agree, there's no reason to remove the afk mining but an active play style should have increased reward. migui is awesome +1"
"i'm one of those newbies who stayed at eve because of his help at first stages.+1"
"10 pages with hate and violence in a german eve board, why nothing here? :>"
"you got my vote! after meeting you in person in eve vegas and getting to shake your hand, i was highly enlightened with your true personality and character. i was very much impressed. you don't just represent goons or the cfc... you honestly represent the betterment of this game that we all love and the surrounding community. you and some of the other incumbents are exactly what we need on the csm and i don't say that lightly. your hard work last year on the csm shows even though many have turned a biased blind eye or are just plain ignorant and can't see it.thank you for your time and effort this past year representing us (the eve community) as csm9 and good luck with the csmx elections! looking forward to another year of having you on the csm.vote for sion kumitomo!!"
"interview done the other day. looking forward to it being posted."
"hello, my name is ariete i am looking to represent the wormhole community with the objective of improving wormhole space.i first started playing eve in 2003 and have been playing since then. over the years, i have spent time in high sec, null sec and w-space. i joined my current alliance sleeper social club in 2012.wormhole space:wormhole space thanks to corbexx is in a relatively good shape. what would good to look at again are:blackholes - they are still troublesome and under used. giving them a more better use in wormhole space.frigate wormholes - either a reduction on the amount that spawns or remove the mass regen from the wholes.one upcoming problem that i can see coming up is strategic cruisers. wormhole space use them quite differently than known space. in wormhole space they are the workhorses, we use them for scanning, boosting, ewar, salvage and pvp. for those that live in wormhole space we need to keep strategic cruisers flexible. many of the subsystems are rarely used, these could be repurposed to other roles. for example to use micro jump drives, more different types ewar, better logistics to greatly increase their versatility without over powering them.sovereignty:i am in favor with the principle of sovereignty through utilization. what i mean by this is that you using a system would gain you sovereignty over it through living, mining, fighting, industry etc. other corporations could come in and reduce your sovereignty control by using your space i.e running you sights, pvp and destroying your structures. they would also be a natural decay to it, so inactive system you would lose it eventually. null space would be much better off with a player based system rather than a structure based sovereignty.new player experience:i think the best way to improve this aspect of the game would be to make the new player experience more in-line with actual gameplay. for instance, in one of the missions the rats pod the player to demonstrate both the podding mechanics and the risk of being podded. the current system for mission running perfectly effective as it is, however i believe that changes could be made to introduce players to faction warfare, wormhole space navigation and actual pvp which would greatly improve the realism in the new player experience. for instance, a mission might take two new players to the same ded space pocket and have them engage in combat. another aspect of the game that is crucial to the new player-base is the new isis system. i believe that this system could also be utilized elsewhere, with an isis-like system representing not only the ships of the game but also the module tiers as well, perhaps tied in with the ship isis. this would make planning for skills dramatically easier for newer players. csm:the csm is an elected body that works as a representative voice for the players. it is designed to help the players relay their ideals to ccp, and in turn helps ccp relate to their playerbase. recent incidents have shown this system to be both effective and ineffective depending on the situation. these kinks in the system are getting fixed, and i would like to help the improvement process in any way i can over the next term of csm.if elected csm as your, my hope is to work coherently with the rest of the csm team, ccp, and the playerbase at large to create an even better new eden for all of us to live and die within."
"vote match infomationcampaign statement sovereignty through using it - you need to use your space to keep it. wormhole viability - make sure that wormholes keep viable through the future changes. corp management - fixing corp management to make it easier and more secure. better bookmarks - alliance bookmarks, fleet bookmarks and better propagation of them. experience in evei have played many areas of eve. started off mining and running missions in high sec. moved out to null sec helped a corp establish themselves and gained sovereignty over a small chain of systems. after that corp folded i went back to high sec, ran some missions and joined rvb. took part in the community events. left rvb and joined up with a friend in fcftw and got hooked on wormhole space.real life experience have been in management and admin roles in my past work.have done similar roles before in star wars galaxies, testing, bug hunting, documentation, working with senators and devs to fix and improve the game.top 3 issuescorp management and pos management - making sure the needs of wormhole space is taken into account and adding in more usability for us. ship balancing - making sure that wormhole use of ships don't get changed too much and effect our viability. wormhole viability - keeping wormholes viable and not negatively effected by sov changes. how will you be a effective csmhaving a wide range of experience with in eve, past experiences and professional skills that i can bring together can make me an effective csm member.in what way do you think the csm can be improvedbetter information on what the csm is and what it does. the majority of players don't understand the csm and what it does and a result they expect things from csm which they can't do. better flow of information would also help with this.if you could choose a theme for a releasepos changes - fixing all the problems with pos's and pos management. bringing more functionality and security to pos'sin your opinion how can ccp keep eve funthe key to eve is not the game but the community. getting the new players involved with the community, events, lore and meta will help to keep the players hooked on the game by showing them that's there's more than the game that they play and get them out of their bubble.capstable interviewthis is the capstable interveiw that i did on 7th february with stupid genius capstable csm x interview with ariete wormhole csm x talk wormhole csm x talk on cloaky scout podcastthis is a talk with the wormhole candidates for csm x."
"q and a from proclus diadochu1. what is a detailed background on your gameplay experience since you've started playing the game?i first started playing this game in 2003 when a friend of mine introduced the game to me. we mainly spent our time in high sec mining, killing rats etc. when my friends moved on i moved with them. i still kept coming back to the game from time to time running missions and killing rats etc.another set of friends decide to play eve they got themselves set up in null space and got sovereignty of several systems out in catch . we did pvp, mining, industry etc. we had good fun in trying to keep the space we had.after that alliance folded due to a few reasons ii got playing other games. i came back a few times again running missions in high sec and chilling out. i started to get involved with the communities in eve like rvn ganked and eve radio's lemming leaps. this lead me to join rvb which i had a great time in and taught my a lot about small gang and solo pvp in eve.an old friend of mine got involved with eve uni at the time, he later joined up with sleeper social club. i started talking to him and got interested in the wormhole space. so i started to get training up my skills and learning about wormhole space life. once my skills was good i joined up to ssc.in ssc i have took part in many fight and sieges, often been the reason they started. i like hunting down targets in wormholes and null sec. the roles i do in fleets are often ewar, interdicting and combat hauling. no bullets, no pew pew.2. have you ever been involved in the political landscape or corporate leadership within eve?not in eve, i have ran guilds and similar roles as csm in other games like star wars galaxies. i like the community and meta game in eve, it provides a richness and life to the game.3. how do you intend to reach out to the playerbase you wish to represent?well i am arranging for there to be a wormhole debate later next week, only one other candidate has got back so far. it will be held on our ts. details of this will be going out to the wormhole community this weekend. later today i have a interview arranged with capstable. there are other things in progress as well.4. why did you recently decide that you wanted to represent the community?i have actually been thinking about doing it over the last couple of years. i have been wanting to invest in to the game and its community. after talking to some friends i decided to go ahead and run this year. knowing that there is going to be some fundamental changes to the game we have to make sure we get good representation and voices for the wormhole community into the csm.5. what is your experience with pos/corporate role mechanics?in our home i run a pos for myself and a few others. i know how much of they are a pain at times. getting config starbase to sort out one small problem on your pos could mean been able to offline others. as for corp roles that i have had, i haven't had any. we have a good team of people in the corp, there's been no reason to have roles. i help people out with there problems, i understand the mechanics of it all.6. what is your experience with t3/capitals/ishtars/logistics class ships?the only ones i don't fly of those is capitals and to be honest i have no desire to fly them. i fly strategic cruisers, drone boat like gilia's, vexor nay issue etc, i fly hic's and dic's, i fly logistics from time to time. sub cap wise i can fly most.now are ishtar's and strategic cruiser's op? well yes when you have 100+ in a fleet like you have in null sec. but in wormholes space when a fleet size is 30-50 (caps, t3, logi, support) for a big op, then no they not. which is one problem we are going to have soon. there going to get nerfed because of null sec, we need to make sure they are still viable for us in wormhole space.7. what is your experience with mission running/mining?been running missions (lvl 1-4) and mining since i started. don't do them as much now that i'm in wormhole space we run sites, huff gas etc. when i have done them, i have found the to be fairly repetitive same as most mmo's would be nice to see the missions revamped. put some new life into them as they are what alot of people do in eve.8. what is your experience with research/manufacturing/trade?never got into the industry side of eve. i do a bit of trading and hauling nothing major.9. what, if any, is your experience with sov?we all know there's no sovereignty in wormholes. years ago when i was in null sec, we was fighting to protect our space. eventually we lost the space, ahh good old times in drow. mechanics wise i understand the processes of it all. it seems a bigger pain than sieging and evicting a 20 tower wormhole."
"+1, i support the above message."
"howdy!my name is stupidgenius charante and i am one of the co-hosts of the cap stable podcast.in early 2014 our podcast interviewed a great majority of the candidates for csm9 and we will be doing the same for csm10.here is our announcement:"
"looking forward to following your campaign. personally, i like your \"spartan\" style new player experience model, and i'd love to hear more about it. would you opposed to a set of exploration missions that introduced a more controlled wormhole environment to teach basics to rookies, then step them into a more aggressive training curriculum leading them to \"live or die\" experiences in their training (similar to the podding and pvp examples your provided)?also, do you miss rcc? o7"
"a \"spartan\" style new player experience is not what is needed but a more realistic experiance.i agree with you about wormhole exploration. you get to scan out a wormhole, aura shows you to bookmark it on both sides and you get to scan down different sites and kill a few sleepers. you warp to the bookmark you saved and jump back."
"i think you misunderstand what \"spartan\" style is...it is through realistic experience. if the development plan was to create exploration tutorials for wormholes, it would likely be good to be a controlled environment to some degree to ensure that players don't exploit it and farm new players, but the later stuff could be perfect for pvp, podding, or whatever. also, try to understand that you don't \"know\" what is needed, since no players have all the information/stats/metrics. you have an idea what you think this game needs. as a representative of the playerbase, don't tell other players what the game \"needs\", be open to discussion, and not too polarizing."
"proc speaks the truth. your platform is sound, just remember to treat this as a race to fame. the people must know who you are if they are to vote for you. cap stable podcast would be a good start."
"already booked into the cap stable podcast. also looking at having a wormhole townhall sometime next week."
"so why the sudden interest in making wspace a better place? what makes you think you have what it takes?i'm asking this because you entirely lack visible history on forums or even in-game. you never took part in any of the countless discussions about state of and changes to wormholes, never suggested anything and i dont recall you being active in representing any group of players. i'm not trying to attack you here, but please understand this makes it extremely difficult to judge your character, goals and capabilities. people are not very likely to trust someone they never heard before."
"well that being said i am a slight latecomer to the csm runnings.. lots of rhetoric, lots of old arguments, lots of regurgitated facts about how life is living in nullsec, or high sec, or in between, is and how it should be fixed.... or what is broken and what is working just fine (usually for the person running for csm i might add). loads of comments about how \"i added loads of people to eve\" probably most of whom just simply burned out after 2 weeks and never played again, but this is a bigger issue, these issues are ones that affect all of the regular accounts, old or new, that log onto eve, not just new players, not just null high sec, not just ratters or scanners...who am i? in game i am soelent, i have played eve on and off for the last 10 years or so, i had an account back in the days of bob and was even involved in the beta at one stage but that email, and sadly that account, were lost a long long time ago (how upset i was at the fact that my piece of steve that i had from bob era wars was devalued so greatly. i am also the only member of the ccp guard appreciation society, but couldn't get anywhere to print his face on a tshirt for eve_nt this weekend.outside of game? i am mike. 30 year old science teacher in one of the most difficult areas of south wales in the uk. eve for me is more than a game. first and foremost i log on to eve to socialise with my friends, and as i am sure you can all relate to, i end up spinning a ship whilst i am doing work for work or marking or otherwise being busy with other non-eve-related things.the game has allowed me to build up solid, multinational, country friendships all over the world.most importantly the game allows me to explode things, whether this is a rat, another player in pvp, an asteroid or isk from my wallet replacing the stupidly expensive ships i just warped into a gatecamp with, there is no other game that requires this level of skill, and/or planning at \"my\" point in the game, as with any others.why csmwell, i did ask myself this, and then when i thought about it and the conversations myself and alliance mates, and corp mates and friends had had it turns out that actually our ideas aren't to far different.so why not. why would any person not want to take the opportunity to contribute positively to a spectacular game that has so much more potential than it already has. i want to see eve fresh for the next 10 years.. its been going strong for over 10, why not another.without trying to sound arrogant or egotistical, i feel i am pretty good at sorting problems out and actually enjoy it. i have an inherent ability to look at a situation and see what is most often the simplest or most appropriate solution to it, i am good at it.combined with my passion for this game i think i would be pretty good at this and representing the interests and needs of the playersof course i have my own personal ideas and agenda for the game which are probably shared with a lot of other players. who wouldn't want it slightly different in some areas if asked? and i am sure people would all have their own way of doing things if they had creative control. but but but that is not what i feel being a csm is about. being a csm is not about one's self, it's about representing my \"people\" (to be read corp, alliance and eve-mates in no particular order) for the best possible outcome for everybody after all pro's and con's of suggestions have been weighed and all affected parties accounted for. one of the greatest challenges facing eve is new players. not one csm candidate, veteran, or even ccp dev can agree otherwise. i have been playing solidly (after i returned) for the last 3 years. i am competing with players who have 150+ million skillpoints and i feel the pain as a reasonably well equipped, well off and skilled pilot.it is difficult for even veteran players to easily train into a different skillset, let alone a new pilot starting the game with no vision or idea of where to go.they are 10 years behind. 100million skillpoints under and simply cannot compete in a lot of areas. this needs to be addressed."
"my ideas and suggestions - well, when i say mine, i mean the ideas of the people whom i play eve with as much as my own.i appreciate its not new players that will be voting in the csm elections.. but starting areas, starting quests, and a return to the race, bloodline and ancestry based bonuses i feel could be looked at.currently you start as a new player and are thrust into this astronomically complicated world as i mentioned above. elite dangerous has a lovely set of offline tutorials which would be so beneficial to new players in eve it cannot be ignored. you would get the game and spend the first 2 weeks or so playing through these tutorials, online of course, racking up skill points for rewards, learning the crafts and piloting skills and forming a solid basis in eve. the idea being that when you leave, you would be a freshly trained and knowlegable pilot with a little bit of isk, enough skills to be a viable character starting out wherever you may choose and enough knowledge of the game to be able to make reasonably informed decisions about where to go and what to do. the skillpoints would not be allocatable until the completion of the tutorial (say a total of 5million or so if you played through the whole lot) and a set of cheaper implants. a small token of appreciation would be a ship of your choice (up to say, a t1 cruiser) with fittings of your choice to float you out into the universe. also, and in addition to that, a lot of pilots, including myself, trained some skills with no particular vision or direction and are, for the most part, completely useless (how many of you have a small tangent of trading skills or mining skills on your pvp pilot etc) we get a yearly reset of attributes. why not a yearly reset of one or two skills to relinquish the skill points from said skills to be reallocated elsewhere as we see fit. - certain skills would be exempt from this, for example combat ship skills, ===station dockable supers - now dont get me wrong the station is a finite resource. but the ultimate end game in eve is a supercarrier and titan for a lot of pilots. as soon as you get into one, that is effectively it for that pilot. you are locked in, now, most are kept with holding toons, and/or on a specific \"super\" toon and require huge efforts on an alliance and sometimes individual scale to build, and then fly. they are the reserve of the rediculously rich, and/or the well catered for alliances. why not change the station mechanics slightly to allow a limited number of supers to dock on the outside of the station and become a feature of that station itself - imagine a marina with 5 or 6 huge yachts docked up along side and then replace that image with a station with 5 or 6 supers it serves a number of purposes. the first, it allows people to utilise super toons outside of actually flying the super, and second it would serve to spread a corp or alliances supers out around sovereignty within eve.===interceptors and frigates vs battleships? a lot of my corp, alliance and people chat to generally feel this needs a bit of a rebalance. lets put this into perspective, i love flying my interceptor, and frigates around, but if i, and a group of friends were running around as soldiers in real life, and came upon a tank (i.e. battleship) and pull out their pistols it isn't even going to scratch the armour let alone blow the thing up.there is no reason an interceptor, frigate or otherwise shouldn't be able to pin that battleship down.. none at all that i can see, even start to eat away at the shields but considering the battleships would have shield generators the size of half the fleet it should be near impossible for something that small to explode it. that's what cruisers and destroyers and battle-cruisers are for. now, the simplest approach we came up with was having a damage modifier on weapon size vs sig radius. ie, if you are shooting a battleship with a frigate size weapon it will reduce the damage accordingly"
"there will of course be much more to follow.. i can always be reached in game if i am on just chuck me a question. if you want to mail me thats great too, or just post in this here topic and i will reply asap.i am an open, blank paged book guys and girls, i have my own ideas but they are unimportant so ask away."
"can you explain how these two ideas are remotely in agreement with each other?"
"absolutely: these are mutually exclusive statements however and that should be born in mind. a new player should be able to join a fleet and be of benefit to that fleet with the skills he has. tackle, small support, dps against appropriately sized targets, more importantly with the abilities he has gained from the training changes if any. new player progression should not however be restricted to being linear.. if a new player wants to rock out in a battleship they are more than welcome, nothing is stopping a new player training directly into a battleship, as the training is in no way linear (aside from a few prerequesite skills, it still takes abotu 10 days to be able to sit in any race' battleship)with regards to the damage scaling. .. i regularly witness groups of 5 or 6 interceptors and/or frigates taking out battleships with ease, which shouldnt be the case, there is no issue with the tackle.. and no issue with specialised gang fleets (ie an interceptor or 2 with a bomber fleet as bombers and torps are inherently anti-battleship weapons) but this small change would introduce a mechanic that.a. made battleships viable fleet weapon platforms againb. increased diversity in pvp, more cruisers, more variation in fleet composiiton etc. i am not saying that all utility of interceptors or frigates is taken away. but their roles potentially streamlined.. an interceptor is for intercepting/dog fighting with other small, fast ships. destroyers for heavy dps applications, cruisers for larger ships with more punch. and then leave the nich<U+FFFD> ships (bombers) more or less as they are. this, in my mind could me implimented as a straight weapon size vs hull size penalties (small weapons lack the penetrating power, and hence dont do the damage to the 3200mm of armor plate however larger weapons would)in terms of damagefrigates = 100% frigates, 100% destoryers, 85% cruisers, 75% battlecruisers 65% battleshipscruisers = 85% to frigates 90% destroyers, 100% cruisers, 100% battlecruisers, 95% to battleshipsand so on and so forth. with regards to ishtars., only change that needs to be made to those if any is to remove the bonuses from sentry drones and apply them to heavy drones only, they retain mobility and dps but sacrifice the ability to apply that dps with such impunity (easier to kill heavy drones for example)"
"greetings. i am trinkets friend. you may remember me from such forum topics as trinkets friendly wormhole advice column, various f&i threads, and not much else. i have a blog. you may read this blog to find out a bit about how i think. i do some youtube videos, but not many, as i forget to activate the recording most times. i run prolapse. tbgrl- alliance, and sudden buggery -bugry- corporation. this in no way entitles me to any respect, just a kind of deep, enduring pity. here is my terrible manifesto of things i will do while avoiding deep vein thrombosis on the flight to iceland:highsechighsec content is dominated by boring mining and war dec griefing. i think eve needs more valuable and varied content than camping 4-4 in instalocking ships or circling belts before being ganked. no capital rr. i will agitate to prevent capital access to high security space in any manner where capital rr's come into play. if you think that code or marmites, or any organisation full of cowardsauce mouthbreathing gate-hugging cretins will not utterly exploit the hell out of even rorqual rr on the sivala or niarja gate or dodixie, jita or amarr undock, then you have your head ensconced firmly buttockward. capital transit pass. capital transits of highsec, for a 50m isk, 24 hour license fee to concord? sure. i have a dread effectively trapped in thakala, i'd pay to avoid space aids getting it across empire. i will agitate for tags for standings. i screwed my amarr standings harder than a carpenter screws a door to it's hinges, far too early in my eve career, and i cbf to do the 4 hours plus of the bloody epic arc to fix the standings, and you can only do the cosmos missions so many times. with the success of tags for sec, i will promulgate and agitate for tags for standings. new player experience. this is a vital part of keeping eve strong, ccp liquid, and the community growing. i will work on improving the npe, particularly with the 50% of players who go out solo missioning and never discover a corporation and the social aspect of the mmo. i will agitate to put more leaders in the npe to let new players access corporate content. loyalty point rebalance. ever seen a khanid navy 1mn mwd? no? wonder why that is? ever wondered why derelik and khanid are so dead? maybe it's because the lp cost, tag cost and usefulness of the modules you can buy from the stores is so out of wack it's not even funny. i will agitate to have ccp rebalance the tag cost, lp cost and mission availability of all highsec faction missions to improve rewards, interest and content. lowseclowsec content is accessible to everyone, and generally fine. however, there's a few things i think need some work, and i will go in there batting for you pirate scum.fw missions. i really detest the lp payouts for something farmable by alts in bombers. million lp per hour harvests are entirely too common. whilst this results in deliciously cheap faction ships it is stupid.pirate faction missions and content. i want to see pirate faction cosmos style missions, a better spread of pirate faction content, phat loots and more exploration content to drive or lure more people to live, work, and exist in lowsec such as aridia, solitude, etc. nullseci see nullsec's problems as being its general emptiness, and this is driven in part by the massive amount of rentinggoing on, where whole regions are leased out to risk-averse bears by colaitions of greedy spitballs.i will push for activity-based sov control. i want to see, for example, shadow of xxdeathxx lose 90% of its sov simply because no one lives there. i want to see small alliances of clueless noobs move out to the echoing halls of abandoned stations, existing like space moss between the toes of the monolithic coalitions, a real nullsec ecology not a monoculture of instadocking farmers.skynet carriers. screw them in particular, i will not support anything to do with risk averse assigned dps. wormholesi will be corbexx's stunt coq. we will form a team voltron-***-human centipede of fact-based investigations of what really makes wormholes tick, what is really wrong with them, and how to improve their content. i will table flip like a pro when we get ignored by ccp railroading content onto us which we don't need. i will try to get poss fixed without ccp greyscale style no-bubble poss. i love the bubble and all its foibles. i will get you title-assigned sma's, sensible corporation role and title management, pos security. i will get you universal one size fits all subcapital assembly arrays, because what industry in wormholes really needs is 4 different types of arrays to build ships!i will get you a soft-nerfed proteus. i will attempt to get you a viable cloaky loki and cloaky tengu that carry more than 250 dps. i will get you a laser legion which doesn't suck. i will, sadly, be agitating to nerf a few things too, like the guristas ships and mordus ships.you will get a re-look at w-r effects. admit it, it's a bit ridiculous in a clownish way. but most of all, wormholers, you will get sensible, analytical and in-depth brains representing you on the csm. incursionsi will contact teamspeak and agitate for a feature which detects whiny entitled incursion fc speech patterns and replaces it with a recording of catherine zeta jones saying \"primary the jita nagamanen\" or whatever. this will improve incursion viability 100 fold instantly"
"i will also be going for cross-dressing capabilities for avatars in the nex store, boy george style makeup for duders, and crocs footwear."
"+1tf has been one of my favorite wormholers/bloggers/videocasters in this game! not only did i get the privilege of flying with this gent for a while, but i can confirm that he knows the community he intends to represent. i think that along with corbexx, "
"i'm happy to see you running, i'd just like to ask you this (i bet you can see why):how do you plan to balance out what you believe is right and needed with what your voters and constituency will think and want? you are clearly very good at making your point and having it heard. but it is sometimes quite different form what the rest/majority (judging by forums) of wormholers would want."
"you want to keep ccp liquid. what's wrong with sober and solvent?lp rebalance, any blog posts out there or soming that explain what is wrong for the people that ignore lp?-just nerf fw lp into the ground please-get corbexx to endorse you and i'll place you above him in my voting list."
"please vote for tf, for future epic moments of wife aggro.and because he knows left from right. mainly the aggro tho."
"just out of curiosity with regards to your tag/lp cost rebalance:what do you think about a dynamic tag/lp cost where most farmed factions (npc corps are too specific i think, as you can game the mechanics easier) require more lp/tags and those factions which are less activity require less tags/lp. it would mean that players need to check more and compare more for who they run missions and move around more to find juicier lp stores than just caldari navy for certain items. it should obviously depend on the availability of modules, if there is only 1 lp store faction supplying a thing, it should not suffer from overfarming as there is no other choice. it is rigable and manipulatable if not implemented correctly, but what do you think about it?"
"if this is a serious run, you got my vote.tf, you need to publish yourself a bit more. didn't notice you till i was actively looking for wormhole candidates on this forum (there is corbexx, you, and one nullsecr mascarading as a wormhole guy.you probably want to jump onto podside, or cap stable podcast."
"you do realize that if you advocate for a dps cloaky ship on the loki and tengu, you basically shoot all t1 and a good chunk of t2 cruiser ships and quazi force people into the realm of 400+ dps at 30+ range dps 80,000 ehp cloaky cruisers. i'm somewhat disagreeing here but its not because those ships in those configurations need help, but because we really shouldn't have covops cruiser setups that can tank like the dickens, output sizeable damage, with no real significant downside.the dps of the proteus comes with the sacrifice of mobility. you have to be within scram range in order to apply significant damage. that's the downside (there are others, that's the most glaring).giving kiting setups that can cloak on a dime and do significant dps will cause problems. you know your stuff, i just disagree with you on that point. still keep the good fight going."
"thread locked at the polite request of the op.regardless the position the op took in this campaign, which is not one for me to judge, approve or condemn in my position as va of isd's ccl division, it saddens me to see we had to intervene in this thread on so many occasions. isd ezwal community communication liaisons (ccls)"
"i think if they did allow walking in stations it would just make the game worse, people wouldn't undock, sounds like it would go the way of mass effect and your giving people too much to do within a station and not having any need to undock calm down miner. as you pointed out, people think they can get away with stuff they would not in rl... like for example illegal mining... - ima wreckyou*"
"there is at least one csm 9 member, sion kumitomo, who wants to push for greater csm transparency and a more open system.a first step could be to so in the near future we can have more open debates about the csm and it's members.making the nda public would show debaters, eve media and the voting constituents the bounds (currently placed on the csm by ccpgames) within the csm can operate source:"
"adding to this:it also show how to phrase a question towards a csm member or the csm as a whole, so they can answer it without saying nda"
"the case against voting for the csm:the csm is a focus group for eve onlinesource:"
"here is sion kumitomo (csm 9 goon) opinion about the csm as being limited now as a focus group, 4 minutes into the cap stable interview:\"the csm should be really focused on having a player agency in terms of legislating the process and the rules by which we play a sandbox game, and to have that kind of influence on the rule set.\"source:"
"actually all voting is popularity contests."
"you should try taking advice because every time i've read a post from you its not trying to discuss anything. you either say read op or post a link or just insult people. i might bee a goon but i'm not even that mean."
"there is a saying in my country: he who fits the shoe......................that being said, i only said: \"current csm guys \"bashing\" on xenuria\"and last time i checked, your forum alt is not a csm guy.also bashing does not mean an insult by definition.i do agree, that if someone asks a legitimate question, then that could be awnsered normally sure!however i understand the sceptical attitude, since most people just want to see xenuria burn.if that was me i would be sceptical also."
"i think we can say we do not want xenuria to burn we just want someone that knows what they are doing as a csm member. xenuria won't answer the honest questions from a few people and he claims they are trolls or insults. if he can not or will not answer honestly then why would we want him as a csm member. answer we wouldn't."
"fair enough, however i still dont see why you are asking questions to xenuria or even care about what he wants to do on the csm. reasoning behind this is, you are in goons, so you allready know who you must vote for and also your guys spot is a guaranteed spot!but who knows, you might actualy be interested in this csm competition"
"i had an interesting discussion with some shadow cartel who were camping me in aeschee.we were discussing my proposed term limits and one of them i forget who made an interesting point. he said that term limits could hurt the independent vote because if a really good independent non-bloc candidate is elected so many times and there is a term limit that value is lost. no matter how amazing that person is they can't run again.i said that this was my point, no matter how terrible or sparkling fantastic a csm delegate is, they shouldn't be able to be csm forever votes provided. term limits keeps systems of election fresh and moving. my platform is very deeply rooted in fairness and as such i would sooner see the same limits and or rules applies to everybody or not applied at all. doing the ethical or right thing isn't about what is easy or even what comes naturally. the csm should be a meritocracy not some grandiose popularity contest or a social status symbol. enforcing term limitations assures that new people and new ideas are present."
"that is an appeal to novelty fallacy. a member being new is unrelated to their merit.furthermore, the csm being an elective process at all is at odds with the idea of meritocracy. each voter has their own idea of merit and many of those ideas are mutually exclusive. are you suggesting there should be some measure of \"merit\" and csm reps should simply be appointed on that basis? if so, how would that work.your stated position contains very serious fundamental errors in reasoning. would you care to revise or clarify to address these problems?"
"i understand your point but i think you are misunderstanding the context of my statements. being new is not better merit wise, i didn't mean to come across that way. i mean to say that in an ideal world people would be voted on not because of what alliance or corp they are from but because of what they can offer. ideals and actuals are not the same. that said it helps to consider them both."
"from a political science perspective, the metric for merit in an election is fairly simple: getting voted for is the objective standard for how well you're doing. the road to reach the votes is the hard thing to measure, and where much disagreement lies, and of course what to do when then elected, but the election itself is largely that simple.in a sense, this is because all elections are popularity contests that require a reputation good enough to entice people voting for you - although in some democracies, the bar is very low due to other candidates being really bad or the rules being bent in one way or the other. when xenuria tells us it doesn't want to work for this reputation, it shows either some lack of understanding, or a lack of desire to win a seat (for whatever reason).nariya kentaya i gotta say, i admire your persistance. you seem like you genuinely want to help, and i don't get why xenuria bites the hand trying to feed it. your advice is sound, mostly, even if i think this is a case of pearls before swine.true, although i don't think we have to fear this particular candidate. personally, i find the thread entertaining.this is my version of driving slowly past a car-crash to get a good view, a version where none gets physically hurt and where the centre of attention has actively, persistently and willingly put itself in that position. oh, and it's related to my field of study."
"fully support corbexx for csm 10.he's done a great job as the wspace rep in csm 10."
"hi corbexx, if you interested i am holding a csm x wormhole debate. i have sent you a in game mail with the details."
"mike, i tried talking to you in private about the issues between tyrant and cypher. honestly i tried burying this when i came on board, but it keeps coming up. i even publicly thanked cypher for adding legacyofacapsuleer.com to his podcast website, even after he called me names for having a different opinion then him. - cypher called anyone who is against the isboxer changes \"c*nts and bitches\" - someone on podside threatened harm to tyrants family over some stupid eve argument - on podside, on a live feed, ccp seagull was called names i'd rather not repeat. - cypher proceeded on 280 to say that tyrant is a hitler supporter... really? - there was about 6 requests that came in before our interview with ccp manifest asking us to push him to condemn or flat out ban cypher and anyone else involved for the comment about ccp seagull. there is a growing call to have ccp police podcasts and blogs because of these statements on podside. none of us want that. you said \"with them i only stayed for a little while, i've never done that with anyone else.\" you commend cypher for adding legacyofacapsuleer.com to his podcast website but don't even attempt to call out all of these other issues, then take a swipe at us? we brought you on because we liked you as a candidate and a person. however now we feel a bit slighted for reasons i can't really discern.edit oh and i forgot i happily donated a billion this to your magic school bus program months ago, you would think that would buy a bit of goodwill?"
"i am sorry you guys feel slighted.i have been listening in and even taking part in the twitch portion of your casts for the last two (funky and manifest) as well as the time i was on.rl precludes me from being able to stay full time for most casts but i do my best with the ones i do show up on. i feel like a kid caught in the middle of a parents divorce. i don't want to take side and i am willing to work with you both. but each time 'mom and dad' get together things blow up (and not in a good way)each podcast is different. your loac has been doing great one guest formats. podside is a different beast, it is the equivalent of going out with a bunch of eve folks, getting drunk, and talking about whatever crosses their minds. there are hours that have no eve in it, others that are finer focus. just like going to a sports bar for beers. sometimes you watch the game, other times the waitresses.i said it before and i'll say it again. i mean no harm, no disrespect. trust me, if i do want to disrespect you i will make it very clear.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"i'm more than willing to take a side here. i'd say in this heated exchange, mike is clearly the better man.you guys should take a moment to cool off before posting, and also try communicating with a person about disputes or tension and see if they're willing to work it out before you openly accuse them of anything. two times out of three, you'll discover it was a misunderstanding and they meant no harm. one time out of three they go out of their way to make reparations. i'd wager mike would be in that last one out of three, time permitting, and if you had a good case for damages."
"i tried replying from my mobile, but it apparently didnt send.mike - no problem, i understand trying to stay out of this fight back and forth (as i have tried doing as well, but i have a vested interest with tyrant and also he doesnt seem to be the aggressor in this fight from trying to be objective....)staying neutral is a tough thing, we just felt a bit slighted by your comment after we supported your candidacy. podside has a few people who seem extremely hostile to other media and even to ccp employees (the statements on a live podcast about ccp seagull are completely unforgivable).your a great csm candidate and you still have our 100% support, sorry this dragged out longer then it should. please do come onto our show whenever you want, either on twitch or even on the live audio. your always welcome."
"marmite calm down.clothe tora bushido"
"literally laughing out loud. this *needs* to be added to the aurum store."
"i read the article multiple times praying for one specific contribution you made to csm ix. i was really hoping i could get that one measly question answered, but unfortunately that's not the case. the most i could find was this in reference to sovereignty mechanics:planting your flag, visually and in a way that matters. invest: if you work hard for something, you are more likely to defend it. feeling of achievement : you earned this, you worked for it. mastery, being able to be good at something, defending. again, that's the general sentiment of most of the player-base and your platform seems to be simply a summary of general sentiment of most players at the lowest common denominator.progodlegend posted on a reddit post that asked players what they expected out of the csm. he wrote the following reply to somebody asking what he contributed to the csm during his two terms:\"i've been involved with most of the tiericide ship rebalancing in some shape or form, and i was heavily involved in getting the jump freighter phoebe changes rolled back some. if you want a few specific examples, here are a couple (there are more, this is just off the top of my head): the phantasm having a 5th low slot (instead of 4) was my suggestion. hac's having a high cap recharge rate was part my suggestion and part rise's really good idea.\"these are great references to specific contributions progodlegend contributed to the csm in his tenure, and it contrasts greatly to what you have posted the following weeks, let alone your campaign platform on the first page of this thread.please core, tell me what you contributed to csm ix specifically and why i or anybody else should cast our ballots for you. i would love nothing more than to be confident that our one and only candidate from provi is representing us well and is being productive for the remainder of csm ix, and will continue to do so if reelected to another term on csm x."
"you do realise you just answered your own question?"
"what i am saying is. hero can recruit players with the ships and skillpoints. hero can purchase chars from the bazaar and the ships. i dig hero i think they are absolutely cool. however if you choose to be newbie centric then you automatically place yourself at a disadvantage skillpoint and asset wise. however there are devices in which to circumvent the situation. but asking for the game to be balanced around the style hero chose is not realistic. eve is a cold dark and unfair universe. the path you choose to go has its benefits and cost. having a gazillion newbies gives you a great zerg force and thats a huge benefit. but numbers should always have some counter otherwise he who blobs the hardest wins. aka nc 1.0 and cfc."
"new interview"
"feel free to add me on skype if you have any questions! skype name: ricrut1"
"chance is a big part of what got me rolling solo bomber pvp and helping to restore sergaljerk to its glory as the best small gang covert ops corp in the game. he's inspiring, he's charismatic, and he seems to have an attitude that suggests he really wants to improve the marketing of this game and get more players in.more players = more targets = more deliveries = yes.chance, your opinions on hisec are quite valid, but bumping and hyperdunk setups having no consequence is something many players find toxic. do you think it's a good idea for suspicious activity that leads to setting up a gank to generate a suspect flag, which offers the opportunity for counterganking to become a playstyle?example: i'm flying a bowhead, hauling thirty quadrillion isk worth of ...idunno, compressed marauders. some hoser slams a machariel into me, and knocks me off my alignment. i attempt to re-align, and he bumps me a second time. at this point the machariel goes suspect, giving him a choice: risk being fired on or risk me warping off. suicide ganking right now is too formulaic, and player skill has almost completely left it at this point - everything's solved. adding this element of risk and counterplay would put a lot of fun back into it.sure i might ship my bumper down to a stabber, but it would definitely not reduce the number of players suicide ganking. heck, it might become a good way to get fights in hisec, too, through escalation and bait-bumping. i get a couple bumps on with my mach, and his stratios buddy uncloaks to try to countergank. now we've got a fight on our hands, and it has turned suicide ganking into a form of bidirectional pvp. it would also open up the game to more new players that don't understand or like the concept of bumping having no consequence to the bumper (which is absolutely stupid from the perspective of both law and physics).by the way, i love your idea of a cloaking inhibitor. this would create a very interesting shift in playstyle - but there's one problem. gate camps - and cloaking being one of the few ways to escape certain styles of bubble camps. just keep that in mind if the design goes forward.another question: what do you think about faction warfare plex farming? personally i think there is a large part of the community that has a problem with it, and i had an interesting thought about how to solve it. what do you think about interdictors being able to launch warp disruption probes, but only inside a faction warfare complex that an interdictor could normally enter? it's definitely not a hard counter to them warping away (they can mwd out of the bubble unless you land a proper tackle) but it certainly adds an element of risk to a playstyle that is currently (much like suicide ganking) very solved and very stagnant."
"thanks for the support"
"welcome to the race!something i've been thinking about recently that i'd like your opinion on, since you're clearly more of a miner than i am: it occurred to me that mining (including ice, and gas huffing) is one of the only industrial professions that requires you to be in space, running an active module, to do anything. pi and industry run just fine while you're sleeping (hauling at least requires you to be in space). pi, industry, and hauling all scale up to the point where it's very easy to get at least a linear benefit for each alt added to the task. mining scales well because the amount of attention required for each individual boat is relatively small, and more so in areas of space with huge rocks.given that, wouldn't any attempt to make mining more interactive reduce the ability of any individual player's operation to scale up? given that nullsec mining in particular seems to be done by a handful of people, mostly because there's a strong bias against mining among most alliances, what do you think the outcome would be? would miners trade scalability for more interesting game play per barge?are my assumptions wrong? (that's always a possibility.)"
"greetings! and thank you!and of course, i will try to go ahead and touch on everything, and yea, i did focus on mining there because is it the most active part of mining compared to the other indy related professions. i don't feel that making mining more interactive will reduce a players scale personally. in this case, the one that i mentioned, about a asteroid scattering and potentially \"dropping\" another rock to mine - it's not reducing their operation; if anything it's giving them something new to look forward to. it also adds to a nice little reward for mining the rock out to full. say you completely mine out a rock of veldspar, a much smaller veldspar appears, and the units are small, but it's a different type that yields more trit . that is just a rough example or course. so something like that i don't feel would reduce any operation, it would simply be adding something \"rewarding\" and interesting and interactive. if they don't want to go after that drop, they don't have to, but it's there, and possibly make it even so that if you don't start mining it in a certain time (say an hour) then that rock scatters with the rest and you loose it (kinda like a normal drop if you were to get a wreck for killing a npc or player). but again that's just a rough idea but i hope that answers your question on that part.as for pi and moon mining, the two passive income, yea we do have that, but there are also other ways to make passive income as well. ie. looking at say research agents, or even selling kill rights (yea, i consider those two passive as well). although setting up a planet and a moon do take a lot more effort imo.pi - you need to open your planet view while in space in order to place command centers (cloaked or pos up), and then once you get in place you start trying to scan the planets to find what you need and then place command centers and your buildings and what-not. this is time consuming more than anything imo, but the end result is passive income, so you can't really complain there.moon mining - this is the same as pi, but instead of scanning moons, you shoot a probe at a moon and wait x-minutes (depending on the probe you are using) and then your results pop up. from there you set up your pos and moon harvester, silo's, some defense, and fuel it up. this too is tedious but it's also passive income so can't complain too much there either. though you do have to calculate the cost of running the pos and the profits you're getting to see if it's worth it. so there's that, if your not taking that into account, then you could be paying more for the pos than what you are mining. which isn't a good thing there. so anyways, i probably went on a tangent there - i can write a lot when i get going - but in any case, i hope it answered your question in regards to the mining.thanks"
"well, you definitely have my vote for the election ;)about the improvements you want to push on the mining. i'm all in favor of improvement. mining hasn't really changed since the game launched.imho tho, it is because it's a good system. alltho it would benefit from a minigame, that would improve revenue (and lower it if you don't play it).on the minigame, any industry needs tweaking to keep it running at max effciency. so i'd like to see that you constantly have to adjust your mining gear (bypass hard rock, direct to soft rock, ...). the bonus ore you propose, for mining out a rock, could, for example, be implemented as 'ore samples' that scatter when depleting a roid. add the 'ore samples' into your ship's analyzer (the minigame), and your beams get better modulation, yielding more ore.also, about the defense of mining ships... imho, they're good as they are. one on one, they shouldn't be able to win against a combat ship. it's a commercial ship ffs. combat ships should have 'free reign' over them. but with a friend watching your back, properly fitted, they guarantee your friend a kill.what could/should be added tho, is that asteroid fields become claimable. allow corporations to set up mini poses in asteroid fields. they don't have a bubble, but they do allow you to anchor guns and hangars. it provides more safety for miners, if you add a mining array, it might provide (some) passive income. and mining in a claimed field would give you a criminal timer for thieving (and the guns would open up on you). big pro... it would further more small scale conflict in the game over one more resource (hey, we're allready fighting over moons and planets, why not over asteroid belts).my five cents ;)"
"greetings! thank you for the support as well!just going to touch on the suggestions as well, which they are all interesting suggestions. i also agree that mining has never really changed. we did get new visuals, which are nice, but it didn't add anything <U+FFFD>game-play<U+FFFD> wise. the mini-game sounds interesting with regards to the ore that can drop after mining an asteroid being ore samples that you have to analyze before you can actually mine it, does sound interesting. i would like to play with that idea further though. as for the adjusting, i am not sure about that one because if you get the t2 strip miners you have the crystals. which do in a sense <U+FFFD>tweak<U+FFFD> your strip miner so that you can yield more. unless i am reading that wrong on that part, i think that's fine the way that it is.on the defensive mining ships, i'm not saying they should be able to win over a combat ship, but more rather adding a <U+FFFD>get away<U+FFFD> defense. for the instance that i stated; adding an extra high slot that can say, be used for a nos to drain your target and better your chance to get away. it would add more flexibility in my opinion. it would be nothing more than that. you could have a friend watch your back, but a ganker in high-sec for instance isn't going to go after a mining ship that has combat defense with them (well they can, but it's not usually likely unless they have friends close by). they would have to be off-grid somewhere or docked. which by the time they come out to defend you, it can be too late if their fast enough. at least in this case you would have more <U+FFFD>options<U+FFFD>.interesting idea on the passive mining, however, i'm not to keen on the idea of making mining passive and belts claimable like that. belts should be open to everyone. mining should remain active; as in you have to be in space and activity mining the ore in space."
"well, consider it a 'base configuration'. after that, you'd have to start the minigame (open the controls of your miners).eg: it could show you a 'scan' of the asteroid(s) you're mining. akin to the pi overview (would also make the ore scanner more viable :d). which could show you harder and softer spots (harder = husk, softer = valuable ore). so you'd have to pinpoint your laser to where to mine. and allow miners to amp their lasers, but do it to much, and it results in heat damage. this way, active miners get rewarded, and afk-miners get penalised. i live in lowsec, and i mine their happily. truly no boost needed. hulk, with cloack = uncatchable (yes, you sacrifice some revenue for reduced risk). mining in a venture is riskless. and if you engage a squad of procurers fitted with neut and ecm drones... you're nuts... imho, any change right now, would make barges op.wel, my point of view on it, is that it drives conflict. the passive income, is what we fight over. in null and low, we fight over moons, in low and empire we fight over poco's. staking our claim and fighting over it, is what makes eve come alive.i do agree not all belts should be claimable. but you can limit it perfectly to sec status of the system. eg: only .7 and below.on top of it, it fits perfectly in the storyline of the empires losing power, and by only allowing more easily destructible structures to be deployed, it would be a boon to small gang warfare."
"ashterothi, you just jumped to the top of my voting list."
"exploration & law your definitely getting a vote from me."
"i am going to just assume you mean't lore, not law :d"
"thoric frosthammer has my vote to become a member of csm x.in addition to having an immense depth of experience and knowledge of the game, he brings a focused and intelligent methodology to his decision-making that i believe can help shape this game to remain a social venue for both eve veterans and newbro's for years to come.as someone who has had the privilege of recruiting thoric two and a half years ago into my corporation as a line-member in black core alliance and watching him progress into the alliance leader of get off my lawn within the cfc, i fully support his campaign to become a member of csm x. if you would like to see ccp re-focus on the social venue that eve is to its players, then vote for thoric frosthammer csm x."
"he's a good man, responsible, and i have no doubt he will work tirelessly for the betterment of our game and lifestyle. i fully support my friend thoric frosthammer for csm."
"thoric knows what to say, when to say it, and how to say it.he has my vote"
"bump for good man"
"dear sion kumitomo,could you please post your 45 page summary of dynamics in 0.0 and how things interact ? because csm x might have an opportunity to influence ccpgames new sov mechanics and currently you are the most qualified csm 9 member that understands nullsec. by posting it we could have a better and open discussion that helps along the process.regards, a freelancer"
"why is he a jerk? because he cuts through the bs and gives you straight talk? more csm representatives like sion please.and sion straight up owned xander and the other self-promoting do-nothing csm members which was great."
"oh, and does ali aras shop at talbots?"
"grrrrrrrrrrr goooooooooooooooooon[im voting for you][fix heavy missiles]"
"if i'm about i'll try and be there for the town hall. i could do with knowing as soon as possible though."
"hi angrod, if your interested i am holding a wormhole debate for the csm x election. i have sent you a in game mail with the details."
"hi bane, if your interested i'm going to be holding a csm x wormhole debate. i have sent you a in game mail about the details."
"i'll go so far to agree with you that interceptors online do not make for fun gameplay, especially that particularly nasty bout of nothing-but-crows-running-away-from-more-crows meta the game had going on a year ago, but the solution isn't to penalize all frigates. #notallfrigates etci respectfully disagree with pretty much everything else you said. in fact, i'll flip it right back around - if you're annoyed that your battleship gets ripped apart by frigates, maybe you should get a caracal to sit with you instead of wishing your ship were immune to frigates. having support and involving more people in gameplay is a good thing, rather than making it impossible for people to interact unless they are this tall.also, have you tried including battlecruisers in a roam comp lately? i have. it's ugly."
"they're all difficult. i tip my hat to you, i worked in pembrokeshire taking school groups climbing for a year and it nearly killed me. deprived would be an understatement to describe many areas in south wales. i'm sure the skills you need for dealing with 30 unruly welsh kids and their parents will put you in good stead for the csm."
"fcon's rent is past due. please forward this to your leadership."
"its not personal, but the general feeling is that battleships are no longer a viable choice.. as with battlecruisersflavour of the month at the moment is ishtars, and the more i see ishtar fleets countering everything and anything thrown at them, the more i see the only counter is to run more ishtars vs them with the same fit. doesnt really make for a decent game either \"oh another ishtar fleet.. lets get the ishtars out again\" gameplay gets boring after a while.with regards to immunity, no. not immune, less vulnerable to... i appreciate if someone rocks through with 30 frigates its gonna make for a small gang of hurt, but that is not what i am talking about, and i am not suggesting that you could sit there for 4 months and hit a battleship with a group of 10 and it never even start to crack, but i feel there should be limitations of each ship with regards to what, and how, they interact with other ships. much like real military ships.frigates for fast support, scouting and tackle, cruisers for more damage and some ancilliary supportbattlecruisers for the real meat, and then battleships and carriers on upin essence to make a successful fleet, you would be looking at targetting specific classes of ships you would have to make the fleet with those targets in mind and/or take a nice rounded fleet.these roles need to be more clearly defined in the game and hence the suggestion for limiting weapon size damage vs hull sig radius.i want to be able to pvp in battleships again. i want the frigates to play just as important a role in pvp as they do now but without the ability to nuke down a 3billion isk omnitanked pvp battleship with little or no ability to counter them without reshipping or have a counter fleet.. losses should be relative.one suggestion that was made was point defense weapon slots (ie a module that isnt low mid or high that gave specific defense vs certian types of weapons/systems) etc.. there are many ways to broach these problems and its about finding the best one that fits best into the gameplay mechanics at hand and the needs and wishes of the populous. in some respects its a square peg for a round hole... itll need a little shaping and pushing to get it through but it can and will go through."
"i think in regards to strategic cruisers he's just suggesting it would be nice if the tengu, loki and legion covert ops variants were at least capable of doing the same sort of damage as combat recons, lest w-space become combat recons online. they could then fulfill a heavy tackle role whilst still being a contributor on the damage output, and the combat recons can lay down the ewar."
"behind the silk screens of a chinese wall which you get in the csm (nda's etc) you have to be able to divorce yourself from in-game allegiances, pet hates (eg, the corax), etcetera, if presented with evidence by fozzie's \"metrics\" for example, and do what's best for the game and/or community.now, sometimes this may mean, for example, if the roteus needs a pg nerf to balance its uber tank and the evidence and arguments are ample, i will have to accept that a nerfed proteus cannot mount 5 x large smartbombs. if i have to give up my smartbombing proteus in order to see viable cloaky legion dps and loki dps then so be it. i understand what balance is.the constituency can be quite rabid and knee-jerky, at least on the forums. c.f. the last time something happened to wormholes. i think ccp has made it clear they have a vision for eve and will do what they think is needed - the csm is there to moderate the process and provide feedback. ccp's effort in pr have been abysmal lately (lockageddon) so the csm should be there to provide a pressure valve."
"i think we can stratios the stratios here, which sort of 600 dps / 60k ehp and sentries for damage projection. your cloaky prot has a dps envelope of 250-550+ (700?), and 60-140k++ ehp right now. balanced? yes. you can fit rails to cloaky proteii,with decent tank and decent damage projection and reasonable speed.try fitting a cloaky arty loki and see how you go. that's my point. to my mind there's no real competition from lokis and legions with stratios and proteii. you may disagree, but to my mind upping the cloaky loki's potential dps envelope from 220-270 to 220-400 isn't beyond the realms of rational."
"+1 would vote"
"i'm going to read that as \"i will try to get you,\" because tromping into the csm saying \"give me this\" is probably not going to end well.otherwise, +1 for a solid and engagingly-written platform.question: given that ccp has said that sov is next on the menu, what are you going to bring to the table on that subject? i know it's not your forte, but the odds are approximately 100% that you're going to be in real and virtual rooms with ccp developers over an extended period of time discussing the subject, and with only 14 people on the csm there's not much room for abstention. so what are you hoping to bring to the table?"
"i'm seeing this alot from people, for some reason everyone thinks ccp will be doing nothing but sov or null stuff and its just not the case. there will be tonnes of other stuff going on along side this, pos's, roles, npe, balancing stuff, loads of little things the list goes on. another example of this was last summit which was \"null focused\" had a grand total of 2 hours out of 4 days of meetings."
"just for the record, i don't believe that. i'm essentially asking what he brings to a subject which will come up, and which is outside his core competency.but thanks for the clarification."
"thanks for posting my interview, charante.i will also be guest-fcing and answering questions about my platform and campaign during the spectre fleet at sunday 23:59 eve time (approximately 7 pm est).after that, i plan to spend a few days vacationing in lowsec and fw so i can answer justforcrit's questions on lowsec with slightly less ignorance.after that, what will i do next? stay tuned and find out."
"friendly bump (is this allowed?) quafe:"
"hi csm - i am running a new thread asking for thoughts on having a central account management facility to help, in particular, people who have and operate more than one paid subscription account. i took my idea to ccp who suggested i run this past the csm. i would appreciate - even in brief - if the council could vocalize their thoughts by following this url/thread.to be honest i am looking for all input as i feel there is validity to this.regardsmultiple accounts in need of a unified account management facility"
"i tried this, \"being diplomatic,\" thing today and it went something like this:them, \"what do you think of bot mining?\"jen, \"back in the day, i would have been tempted to sniff their ip address and deliver a program to their ram, which would nuke their boot sector and partially flash their bios.\"them, \"do you think that the order is right?\"jen, \"i think that if you do not enjoy mining with its social and relaxing aspects then there are plenty of other things to do in eve.\"them, \"so you do believe in the order!\"jen, \"the order is a non-factor in my life. everyone is entitled to be a part of what ever cult or religion they choose.\"them, \".... \""
"dont know if this is relevant,but i think alliances should have a lp store system like the big npc corps. you can trade in the npc corps lp at a 3-1 (changeable) rate."
"[/quote]i think we can say we do not want xenuria to burn we just want someone that knows what they are doing as a csm member. xenuria won't answer the honest questions from a few people and he claims they are trolls or insults. if he can not or will not answer honestly then why would we want him as a csm member. answer we wouldn't.[/quote]fair enough, however i still dont see why you are asking questions to xenuria or even care about what he wants to do on the csm. reasoning behind this is, you are in goons, so you allready know who you must vote for and also your guys spot is a guaranteed spot!but who knows, you might actualy be interested in this csm competition [/quote]you know i can and do vote for who ever i want so do most goons.i care and ask him questions because his stated goal is to fix a system that's not beoken. in his eyes it is but that's not why we have the csm it is here to help ccp bounce features off up coming patches for the game not hey how can we make the csm better. i want and so do most of the eve players someone that wants to improve the eve onlive not csm online.if he wants to fix the csm he needs to go get a job with ccps legal team and rewrite the purpose of the csm.phone is on the fits might fix this post when i get near my computer again."
"your evaluation from a purely political science perspective is accurate - elections assume that popularity and merit are one in the same. therefore, when someone indicates they wish to have a \"meritocracy rather than a popularity contest\" they necessarily must be using a different definition of merit and by extension not wish to have an elective process at all. it therefore follows that xenuria is running on a platform of eliminating the elective process in favor of having a csm appointed accoring to some unexplained measure of merit, by some undetermined individual, body, or process. while this is a good clarification, you run into a new problem - we do not live in an ideal world. people vote the way they vote and no amount of electoral reform can stop the electorate from voting on the factors they deem important to vote on. to do so would, in fact, destroy the purpose of having elections.as i explained above, it seems that you are running on a platform of objecting to the process of election for csm candidates. this conclusion is simply unavoidable based on your stated positions. while non-elective processes are not automatically without merit - elections are not automatically good just because they are elections, and non-elective procedures have certain theoretical merits- actual practice in history tends to indicate that since we do not live in an ideal world, elective process is the best thing available to us.it is, however, possible, that the csm is an exception. given your objection to the realities inherent in elections, who do you feel should appoint the csm? should certain ccp devs do so? if so, which ones?"
"i think at no point should ccp be in charge of hand picking or selecting who should be on the csm. just because a system is flawed in no way means it should be thrown out in favor of something even more flawed."
"but then later, you say this:these two statements are somewhat at odds with each other. in the first, you deny that the metric for merit in elections are popularity and your reputation as a candidate, while in the other, you implicitly acknowledge that very system and states that it is better than a system not based on popularity and reputation as a candidate.which statement do you think best represents your opinions?kiryen o'bannon my quote and comment wasn't meant as a correction, but an elaboration. sorry if it seemed otherwise."
"instead of playing shoots and ladders with logic how about you ask an actual question about my candidacy? if you have nothing to ask i have nothing to say to you."
"you don't have to be so mean when someone points out you're logic is broken. i like the guy he's honest with you don't be such an ass just because you can not keep your own platform straight. also he did ask you a question i trust you can find it. hint it has a question mark at the end of it."
"maybe we are looking at this the wrong way in regards to dreads in high sec. instead of escalating high sec action why don't we limit towers to medium size to make tower taking more compeditive. just a thought"
"tora seriously you couldn't recognise evil if it slapped your arse!you change your mind so much i am suprised you even know what day it is.vote tora for csm x if you want no response to questions and no idea why he is there .damn he doesn't even know why!"
"that does look excellent. open and book marked to read it with more sleep under my belt."
"man, you lost it hard!in short:- eve is a game- ccp is the company with earning money in mind.- being a company you need to be professional and people you work with need to be professional too.- signing a nda is a rl pleadge to a company, that comes far before every in game problem, personal oppinion or ingame pledge. bad luck for you:\"dosis facit venenum. by paracelus.\"it is the dose that makes the poison.\"as in medical drug(good) overdose(bad).man...csm are for input of oppinions and ideas to reflect the playerbase bevor changes might be done. they can decide nothing and the influence is limited. worse: sometimes they are surpised by the facts ccp created but are powerless to change something and are bound by the nda."
"as always code. is not in the slightest way coherent.so if you did not take the at seriously, why should one believe you mean this really serious? because you said so? codies said they'd take at serious. was that a lie? that where some other codies?more than one time codies hide behind the lie \"roleplay\". more than any other of of postings writen by codie-\"diplomats\", your posting here are really officical comments from a code-member. thank you for for confirming some of my posts. the whole discussion about why code ganks falls back in place.as lucas already pointed out, your position is solely based on code-wishes ignoring and rejecting the vaild wishes of other paying eve players. there are miners and pve'lers, the reason why, doesn't need to bother you as a player or a codie. worse, as a csm candiate, i expect you to consider and respect them to. the concept of respect is something codies have a problem with respect, reading forum- and blogposts. (want respect but vastly disrespect others, that does not work)another thing is, that you like many others, overestimate the influence csm can take. ccp will listen to advise thy get from players, but in the end, ccp will decide what is going to happen. as lucas stated, the csm should not be biased to one type of playstyle, but to all possible playstyles. the whole point of csm is not to make eve a \"better place\", the point is to make eve interesting for a great variety of playstiles. therefore constructive thoughts for all playstyles are required. you are not elected to be president or governer that makes decissions. you will be less than a lobbyist, cause you lack incentives.this is not about code matters, it is about csm stuff. if sabriz really gets the job, you won't be there. its even assumed, that she will handle that on her account. to get my vote she would need to think out of the code-box. as i worked through this thread, she appears not willing to do so.as per \"post-bumping\":sabriz if you think those \"bumps\" of lucas did you do any good without good answers, you are mistaken. we will see if codies have enough alts to boost you. and even if you get the job, you might be surprised how powerless and without influence you are."
"mate, if u wish to nail me on something by all means.i am extremly hapoy u picked the things tht are so crucial out of my eve24 piece. no matter how vaque, remmeber nda, they are so incredibly crucial, i coudl write a whole page about it even now u mention those. to represent null sec and make sure they dont screw that up omg. u want to hear soecific stuff, i made it possible to, and so on. if anything i hate that attitude. scroll up and u will find a reference of sion, one of the main goon csm members, ofc thats just his opinion on me. i hate too sell my self, and i have shown i dont need too.i hve listed countless times what i am involved with, if u watch my eveamsterdam speech, it holds a frw, including pi acces too all in null, big thing for provi. also trony on cva forums posteded earlier this hear stuff. a csm is for me not having 14 individual agenda s to get their name on a change, it s the dead of a team tbhagain i offer too convoy me, speak to me on comms, as 150 peopel do daily while we talk csm and eve"
"core, you're misrepresenting what i'm trying to do here.it is not my intention to \"nail\" you on anything. i simply want to know what you've done on csm to warrant reelection; i've asked now many times over. instead of answering my question head-on with specific examples of what you've contributed to csm specifically as i have requested, you've merely mentioned broad discussions all csm members are involved with and claimed credit for all of the csm's contributions.you also say you hate to sell yourself, and claim you don't need to, which can be chalked up to admittance of the suggestion i made earlier that your campaign isn't that of substance, but simply that of purely geographical representation.you keep deflecting and dodging. i find that offensive and deceptive, especially when asking such a simple and benign question. what was a simple personal exercise to keep assurance in you as the representative i and so many voted for has turned this personal feeling of doubt in your representation of us as players to the csm that you state you \"hate\". i ask for one specific example of meaningful contribution, you point me to your eve amsterdam speech which is simply a review of what the csm does in general. i ask again, you point me to an endorsement of another csm member, which is completely off-topic. i ask a third time, and you reference the cva forums, which i and so many others are barred from viewing.you're also insistent on a private conversation. why you can't articulate and address my doubts in your candidacy in a public forum for discussion such as this one is doubly as concerning than your non-specific platform and lack of apparent track record which you have had many opportunities to elaborate on.i'll ask again in addition to a few more additional questions: what have you contributed to csm ix specifically? what do you intend of contributing specifically to csm x? and why haven't you fostered a public discussion and opted to post to gated-walls of the cva forums and wish to speak to dissenters privately rather than address their concerns in a public discussion?as i said before, i would love nothing more than to be once again confident that the one and only representative to csm from providence is representing us well as a coalition and as a general player-base as a whole."
"a god amongst men. #1 on my voting list.the only reason not to vote for him is that he will not be able to dedicate as much time helping the new bros who want to brave null sec.not bad bloke for a aussie, which is also a big plus"
"i actually came here to read the sky thread, however once done laughing i spotted this thread.+1, like, endorse and whatever else i can do to approve this person for csm x.the game needs more people like sugar and everything i've read this year says you should be #1 on everyones list (well not mine as i have to vote for hero people but certainly in top 3 )"
"a campaign ad for suger kyle. she has my vote."
"with endie on the csm working with manfred and ccp i cannot think of a better team to boost eve into the direction of succes.endie is by far a man that has done anything what eve has to offer and knows just about anything you can imagen.if there is one man i want to vote for its you and i am 110% sure he is the best man for the job."
"i'm not aware of that. or do you mean that i should form a corp and invite other people in it so that they can ruin my eve ambitions, ridicule me in the process and that nothing else is going to be in there for me, that this is the \"right way to do it\"? in this case i certainly have answered my question, and given a nice reason not to form corps or only to form personal corps and limit interaction.fun fact: not even gankers and advocates for more group play and interaction do this. there are so many 1-man corps of gankers and many of them even stay in npc corps to avoid just what i described above -- and most likely organize in loose groups outside the disadvantaging formats provided by the game. now, someone explain me: is this also \"wrong in so many ways\" or is this the right way all of a sudden and it just depends on on which side you are whether you play the game wrong or right? would be interesting to see the candidates' opinion on that."
"got my vote - good luck"
"from newbros' experience all the way to null logistics and from low sec improvement to sov null, manny seems to have a well rounded agenda as well as the experience, after almost a decade of playing this game, to ensure that he will have a positive contribution to this year's csm!+1 vote"
"a fearsome man on the battlefield and behind the curtains but a genius on everything related to eve online.vote this man into that seat and eve will become a much better exprience for all playing it.goodluck sir manfred you have my axe o/"
"glad to be of service! o7i am concerned the eve codebase doesn't provide enough support for bump triggers -- plus there are so many interactions naturally at gates and stations that innocent players could get flagged without having done anything wrong.ccp's attempt to address this with their latest higgs anchoring rigs is a step in the right direction: providing modules that give players ways to avoid bump-griefers (but still requires planning and trade-offs by capsuleers). i'd also like to see changes to the security standings system, though it's a very sensitive area and should be treated carefully. this is a very good point and not something i had considered. perhaps a more balanced structure would simply cause all cloaks to slowly draw more and more capacitor the longer someone is cloaked in system. so a transport passing through for a minute wouldn't really be affected, but an afk player would be caught with his (stylish grimdark) pants down. i literally know nothing about fw balance, so i can't really comment intelligently here! it sounds good in theory but it's also counterintuitive. i'd rather see ccp make changes to the way rewards are determined than to upend the meta entirely with a singular exception to longstanding rules about empire space."
"- ah, alright, so i did misunderstand that. thanks for explaining that there for me. i see where you are going with that now. now that does sound interesting there and it does make sense, though it sounds like instead of a mini-game, that it would be simi"
"yay!!!!you have my full support! and i vote!!! :)this will be cool as well, cuz i have also had ideas over the years, but not had any real way of finding someone to suggest them to. i did push kinda hard to one candidate years ago about ship skins... and it's finally coming! so ideas do get serious treatment by ccp via csm... again, so cool! and there aren't that many ppl who have the qualifications to serve on csm, but you definitely have them in spades!lemme know if you need anything done to further your candidacy!!mintaki"
"that's great! and thanks mintaki for the support! :)"
"that's a good middle ground imho :) alltho i'd only give it to the procurer/skiff, since those are the ones designed for operation in hositle territory ;)well, i think it would make for a more granular eve. it would give smaller corporations a chance to claim something, make it easier to challenge other corporations. look at it as an intermediate step between empire and low sec.and, it would encourage cooperation between carebears and pvp'ers to work together more :)it would be an ideal addition for small gang warfare, outside of fw."
"yea, i agree there, i'd like to see it on the skiff and procurer as well. macinaw and retreiver was the first that had popped into my head to write as an example. lol. giving a chance to smaller corps and alliance, that does go into how i feel about null-sec currently with how stagient it is. it's very hard for a smaller groups to claim anything with the way it is right now. unless you know one of the main power blocks, you can't expect to really go very far. which is discouraging.what i would like to see on that regards is to get rid of those power blocks. a lot of them have systems just for the sake of having them because they can.; meaning they don't actually use them. what i would like to see on that end is that if a system isn't actually being used by the holder's alliance, then that sov should drop. or something to that extent. that's a rough idea that i had for a bit and something like that would open the doors for smaller groups wanting to claim their stake. it would also help if coalitions were recognizable in-game. i did place these maps side by side to show the difference:"
"i don't agree with the pi templates idea. i assume it is to lead, ultimately, to share templates like overview settings. i consider it a minigame of sorts, and those who play it best get the best results. forgetting links is a nub move that deserves the face palm upon discovery.all other things are good. thanks for running."
"i have a question in regards to being a participant in the eve media community. with all of the leaks, the controversy surrounding several eve media participants, going all the way back to the start of csm9 and now with the latest drama surrounding funkybacon... do you think it's wise to run ?i personally as a content creator think, at this point in time, it's gonna set you back as a content creator, in time, as well as in having a voice that can speak his mind openly without the nda lurking in the background.don't you think being a content creator would serve the community a lot better then you could as a csm ?"
"some other csm candidates have been discussing me and transparency of late. i felt it only right that i added to the discussion:"
"i've asked this question to other eve media participants, be it podcasters, bloggers or video casters, so i will ask you the same question.i have a question in regards to being a participant in the eve media community. with all of the leaks, the controversy surrounding several eve media participants, going all the way back to the start of csm9 and now with the latest drama surrounding funkybacon... do you think it's wise to run ?i personally as a content creator think, at this point in time, it's gonna set you back as a content creator, in time, as well as in having a voice that can speak his mind openly without the nda lurking in the background.don't you think being a content creator would serve the community a lot better then you could as a csm ?"
"in your op, you state that you've been playing since 2003 and have played in high, null, and wormholes, and your stats support that you began really pvp'ing in 2012. based on the boards, it seems that you either did a ton of pve from '03-'12, or you didn't really play much until '12. you have a couple losses, with the first in '06 in gonditsa, then a loss in '08, then a couple in '11, and then you really get in full swing in '12, being quite active with ssc. (this is all based on not having a complete list of your characters/alts/whatever)we've never interacted, that i'm aware, so i don't know how much experience you have in the wormhole political community, not that it isn't dissimilar to slinging a plate of spaghetti against a wall, but you and a couple other wormholers have recently come out of the woodwork the last couple days, and some want to know more about you.i don't play much, at all, anymore, but i do enjoy the csm campaigns each year. the csm is a great opportunity to impact the game, and it is a neat concept within a gaming community. that said, i invested a very long time in this game, and a very large amount of time with wormholes (since '09), and i pay close attention to the players that intend to represent this community.please expand on the following:1. what is a detailed background on your gameplay experience since you've started playing the game?2. have you ever been involved in the political landscape or corporate leadership within eve?3. how do you intend to reach out to the playerbase you wish to represent?4. why did you recently decide that you wanted to represent the community?5. what is your experience with pos/corporate role mechanics?6. what is your experience with t3/capitals/ishtars/logistics class ships?7. what is your experience with mission running/mining?8. what is your experience with research/manufacturing/trade?9. what, if any, is your experience with sov?a. what are your thoughts on your current wormhole opponents? (corbexx, angrod, tf, and bane)b. why should players vote for you over them?"
"here you go proclus diadochu1. what is a detailed background on your gameplay experience since you've started playing the game?i first started playing this game in 2003 when a friend of mine introduced the game to me. we mainly spent our time in high sec mining, killing rats etc. when my friends moved on i moved with them. i still kept coming back to the game from time to time running missions and killing rats etc.another set of friends decide to play eve they got themselves set up in null space and got sovereignty of several systems out in catch . we did pvp, mining, industry etc. we had good fun in trying to keep the space we had.after that alliance folded due to a few reasons ii got playing other games. i came back a few times again running missions in high sec and chilling out. i started to get involved with the communities in eve like rvn ganked and eve radio's lemming leaps. this lead me to join rvb which i had a great time in and taught my a lot about small gang and solo pvp in eve.an old friend of mine got involved with eve uni at the time, he later joined up with sleeper social club. i started talking to him and got interested in the wormhole space. so i started to get training up my skills and learning about wormhole space life. once my skills was good i joined up to ssc.in ssc i have took part in many fight and sieges, often been the reason they started. i like hunting down targets in wormholes and null sec. the roles i do in fleets are often ewar, interdicting and combat hauling. no bullets, no pew pew.2. have you ever been involved in the political landscape or corporate leadership within eve?not in eve, i have ran guilds and similar roles as csm in other games like star wars galaxies. i like the community and meta game in eve, it provides a richness and life to the game.3. how do you intend to reach out to the playerbase you wish to represent?well i am arranging for there to be a wormhole debate later next week, only one other candidate has got back so far. it will be held on our ts. details of this will be going out to the wormhole community this weekend. later today i have a interview arranged with capstable. there are other things in progress as well.4. why did you recently decide that you wanted to represent the community?i have actually been thinking about doing it over the last couple of years. i have been wanting to invest in to the game and its community. after talking to some friends i decided to go ahead and run this year. knowing that there is going to be some fundamental changes to the game we have to make sure we get good representation and voices for the wormhole community into the csm.5. what is your experience with pos/corporate role mechanics?in our home i run a pos for myself and a few others. i know how much of they are a pain at times. getting config starbase to sort out one small problem on your pos could mean been able to offline others. as for corp roles that i have had, i haven't had any. we have a good team of people in the corp, there's been no reason to have roles. i help people out with there problems, i understand the mechanics of it all.6. what is your experience with t3/capitals/ishtars/logistics class ships?the only ones i don't fly of those is capitals and to be honest i have no desire to fly them. i fly strategic cruisers, drone boat like gilia's, vexor nay issue etc, i fly hic's and dic's, i fly logistics from time to time. sub cap wise i can fly most.now are ishtar's and strategic cruiser's op? well yes when you have 100+ in a fleet like you have in null sec. but in wormholes space when a fleet size is 30-50 (caps, t3, logi, support) for a big op, then no they not. which is one problem we are going to have soon. there going to get nerfed because of null sec, we need to make sure they are still viable for us in wormhole space.7. what is your experience with mission running/mining?been running missions (lvl 1-4) and mining since i started. don't do them as much now that i'm in wormhole space we run sites, huff gas etc. when i have done them, i have found the to be fairly repetitive same as most mmo's would be nice to see the missions revamped. put some new life into them as they are what alot of people do in eve.8. what is your experience with research/manufacturing/trade?never got into the industry side of eve. i do a bit of trading and hauling nothing major.9. what, if any, is your experience with sov?we all know there's no sovereignty in wormholes. years ago when i was in null sec, we was fighting to protect our space. eventually we lost the space, ahh good old times in drow. mechanics wise i understand the processes of it all. it seems a bigger pain than sieging and evicting a 20 tower wormhole."
"thank you for taking the time to answer my questions :) look forward to your capstable interview, and i was chatting with corbexx about your wormhole debate last night, and looking forward to following that venue aswell. i'd encourage you to increase your visibility in the wormholes and f&i sub-forums and if you haven't already, i'd encourage you to begin reaching out to wormhole corps and alliances to meet with them on their comms for interviews/chats.best of luck!"
"there seems to be allot of ... well confusion i suppose.there is a few different area's of multi-boxing that tend to get blended. do people own multiple accounts? yes. do people play the game with multiple accounts? yes.the question is how do they play the game with multiple accounts. specifically how do they do it.the main situation is that the typical human can't do two things at once without assistance from programs, machines, automation.now a person can train themselves to be that good, switching accounts back and forth to input commands, but people have a limit to the speed of doing that before mistakes are made. when you get to this level, a person then needs assistance to reduce the mistakes made. this is where automation comes in. lets talk about three basic commands, approach, f1, target.if you have three accounts, switching back and forth to input these three commands takes time, skill, and there is a lag where mistakes can be made. i may be able to tell my three accounts to approach, but i may forget to hit f1, i may forget to target, i may forget to do one of 100 things. we all see this as acceptable in the game.the problem i have (and i can suppose most of the community does), is when the person uses a piece of software, something to automate those three commands, so they don't have to think about it. reducing mistakes, and making the person a more effective pilot. three issues come up with this aspect of gameplay (and it is a method of gameplay). the player is relying on automation to multiply their effectiveness. meaning that there is no requirement for them to train, to obtain the skills to manage three accounts, as all they would have to do is now manage one, and the others will follow in suit. it \"should\" makes them a worse pilot, but whether it does or not does not matter as their margin of error has shrunk to almost zero. their total focus is just on one single screen, pressing a single button, and not mass managing multiple accounts and inputting commands to them all (the software handles that). since the margin shrinks to zero, they can multiply their effectiveness by increasing their account numbers beyond what any normal human can manage. the automation removes the person from interacting with the game as a whole. there is no need for grouping, no need for organization. you show up with your army, a single person with their own mercenary force, to perform a role that takes a organized group months to train for, done flawlessly every time. the best way to handle a situation is by dealing with it yourself. forget the group, you can handle all of one aspect of the game yourself. want your own fleet with no mistakes, make 30 accounts and manage them all at once. no arguments, no yelling, no organizing, its just you with your army of ... slaves. automated multiboxing has been a plague on many games. from people taking over areas of a game themselves (lineage), to communities banning the practice absolutely in order to force people to organize and interact (project 1999). we've seen armies of multiboxers in games, and the only people that like the multiboxers with the automated software, is the multiboxer. everybody else sees it as spoiling the game play (from pvp arenas full of solo multiboxed pvp armies), to the handling of entire aspects of a game due to the ability for a perfect play (bombing wings in eve). now does anybody have a issue with people playing multiple accounts? no. do they have issues with people playing multiple accounts through a piece of software? i do. i can't talk to you, i can't interact with you, i can't group with you, because you do everything perfectly, alone, with no need for my help, my interaction, my capabilities. my own skills screw you up. there is nothing i can do better than you because your software inputs are faster than me, there is no need to relay a command to me because it takes 3 seconds to get to me over coms, and for me to react, when you have already targeted, shot, and probably killed the threat. essentially, i am relegated to a support role, while you direct, perform, star and handle the entire main stage of the performance. if i was not there, it would not matter as you would log in another account, add it into your input program, and become more effective without me. i have zero issues with people having 2, 3, 4, 7, 10, 200 accounts. i don't care if they log them in at once to perform a project. i have a issue with them being able to be better than everybody by using a computer input program to replace me. now if you have 200 accounts, 200 monitors, and are able to interact with them all manually, then damn you are good. but for you yourself to press one button, perform the task of those other 199 people, and never have any error or mistake made but your own.... you kill the interaction and soul of social game-play (because why socialize).just my feelings on it. with that said, what part of the multiboxing community do you represent? what is it specifically do you want done or seen for eve. i haven't really read an actual stance."
"amen. this is probably the best statement i've read on this subject, sharing the concern i have on this topic. well written, phoenix and i sincerely hope that any players that join the csm to represent the playerbase share your concern for the protection of eve's social game-play."
"i've asked this question to other eve media participants, be it podcasters, bloggers or video casters, so i will ask you the same question.i have a question in regards to being a participant in the eve media community. with all of the leaks, the controversy surrounding several eve media participants, going all the way back to the start of csm9 and now with the latest drama surrounding funkybacon... do you think it's wise to run ?i personally as a content creator think, at this point in time, it's gonna set you back as a content creator, in time, as well as in having a voice that can speak his mind openly without the nda lurking in the background.don't you think being a content creator would serve the community a lot better then you could as a csm ?"
"true, i'm not mittens' right hand man. i don't run a rental empire. i don't rat in a carrier, or even an afktar. but i have done my time in nullsec on 3 occasions, from stain to delve to nc dot. like i said, i will be supporting and, depending on ccp's willingness to listen, providing feedback to them on occupancy based sov. this is because i believe that the game needs more reasons for people to fight, and two whole regions of space being permanently transferred in an instant from one rental empire to another, to perhaps never be utilised, doesn't sit right with me.if you're familiar with the r3po-z story, an ex-bugry member has been part of that. this stuff should be happening more often. occupany based sov should be a catalyst for conflict. right now, a band of ne'er do-wells terrorises a ratting empire and stops a whole region ratting for a month, and nothing changes except the small band of aggressors get ground down by sheer numbers while the farmers take a break for a month and pay nc dot to evict their annoyance. in the future, if you don't farm the region, constellation or individual systems enough they should fall off the back of your truck. no month-long breaks while you rat blue space safely - you won't be going back to your home, your assets and towers will be lost, your landlords impoverished and more and more predators will move in. sure, it will force people to play the game smarter, but nullsec is boring as hell, safe as hell and empty. where my experience comes in from wormholes is being able to see a vision of a game where you take a calculated risk. every time you get out of pos in a wormhole your ship can be killed, no warning, no chance. yet we thrive and prosper and we develop skills in pvp, pve, flying, fighting, making money and getting over the sense of whiny entitlement. i see a lot of nullsec as being entirely too risk averse, and preserving their entire way of life is about maintaining security blankets versus bringing on more fights, more content, more excitement. as a wormbro, i'll be there to ask questions and drill down into the motives and reasons behind why people do what they do, and why ccp thinks that one thing is better than another, why one choice in balancing is better than this or that. there's a lot in this game where the consequences of changing one thing can impact greatly on many others, not that you see that from most feedback which is one-dimensional q.q. the other way to put it is this - i have no vested interest in the current state of nullsec, or indeed wormholes. if it looks sensible, i won't have fear of losing income, prestige, status and territory holding me back from saying it's good. not that the current csm's nullsec representatives seemed overly negative about the recent changes, far from it."
"hi trinkets, i am sorting out a wormhole debate next week. if you want to take part i have sent you the details in game."
"i'm curious. do you understand why wardec organizations run so many decks at one? also, what are your experiences with wardecs in game?you've \"heard about it\" so that makes you qualified to talk about it? i always laugh when i hear about how easy bumping is. if the target has not taken precautions against it, yes its easy. if on the other hand they're flying with inertia stabs, are in and fenir/nomad or smaller ship, or have a webbing alt or microjumpdrive fit, it is far from easy. in addition to at least passable skill at manual piloting, bumpers have to contend with glitches that cause them to pass through ships without touching them, and issues with bumping through grid walls, and having targets literally dissappear in space without logging off. add the complexities of bumping for hyperdunking, and no, this is not an easy role if any sore of precautions are taken.i guess pve game mechanics that benefit corporations might be a good idea. i feel like its kinda tackling a symptom of the problem than the actual problem though. (the problem being bad leadership in corps.) if you post about that in f&i i will support it, but i can't vote for someone who demonstrates a complete lack of knowledge about the subjects he complains about., no bumping is not allowed on these forums except in very specific cases. (i can't be bothered to look them up right now). if you want to bump a thread, encourage discussion in that thread.founder of violet squadron, a small gang npsi community! mail me for more information."
"so problems for walking in stations are -1. animations and life like reactions to other players2. a purpose to walk in stations aside from gambling and socializing3. limited dev man power4. rp'ers would never leave station5. limited cash to fund development6. lack of servers to run it.1. so we know eve can make great game trailers. why can't that translate into nuanced character animations? hell why couldn't eve make a sci-fi tv series like clear skies using in game animation and make their own library of nuanced animations? entertain people, make a revenue stream, train more writers, train more animators... think star wars rebels but for eve. i'd watch it. pay per episode even.2. so hangin with friends and besting people in games of chance or skill ain't your thing. how about opening your own corp or alliance hq on a promenade which also double as a store front for your corps own unique ships and equipment. tiericide was good now make eve like a 4x technological space race. someone wants to sell cap booster's with a larger capacity then the norm they research and sell it. always a wip always getting better always a time and isk sink. also gives us a reason to have our own paint jobs since we could have custom ships based off old hulls. add pirate agents in some of the high end bars that capsuleers might frequent even in high sec. hidden agent missions off the books. r&d espionage with hacking off computer terminals or relays.3. games like fallout and even dying light are allowing user generated content into their games. why not an mmo? it involves and inspires the player base and allows them to contribute thus cementing them to the community. what was so wrong with the second life analogy? null sec alliance make isk charging other corps rent for their space... why not allow someone who knows maya or other dev tools access to creating content? hell \"no mans sky\" has an army of computer programs bashing away at type writers making whole ecologies and planets for their human overlords. why can't the ammarrians over at ccp do the same. you get transaction fees for all user generated content that sells?4. not that its a bad thing. j/k. the eve novel \"the burning life\" described the capsuleers as living at the top most isolated parts of the station. so the capsuleer promenade would be limited to the corp hq's slots, corp office slots, store fronts that it could hold. alliance hq's and offices would be on outposts. then a smattering of social areas like dance clubs and eateries. have four promenade types for each race to start.5. ccp has never had a problem asking players for cash before. hey buy this shiny new limited offer ship and/or paint job!(hmmm can't resist pirate rookie ships only 120 mil a piece must have the set!) plex for charity has been done numerous times. how about put your money where your mouth is and let eve players pay for the content they want to see. you have player summits all over. tell us with stats and charts you need x dollars to support y people over z time to make us our content. not pay to win, but pay to push the game in the direction we want. a cash cow csm. you know like those other guys with the fish tank and alien lobsters do!6. stop giving away your old hardware: repurpose it! could have used those old servers for walking in stations, or player created deds or back up on the fly support for when server load gets heavy. watching to many american hoarders episodes and scaring yourself neat and clean. we love you just the way you are ccp duct tape, messy cables and all!well that's my buck twenties worth.so before the motto was harden the f up! now its the best ship in the universe is the friendship. with that kinda turnabout i still have hope eve can weather this storm. dream big don't just plan small!"
"any csm or people running for a spot on the csm care to comment on the future of walking in stations as a feature and where it's sits on their list of priorities for eve?"
"i also agree this should be an ore ship with some kind of direction scanner interference within the bubble. you can be scanned out but not just fluked upon. the ecm burst wouldn't work well with other soe ships is what put me off. soe needs a covop carrier ftw!"
"again. ndas are typically boiler-plate legal documents. go and google an nda and you'll probably find most of, if not all of, the language found in the csm nda minus specific content that is applicable to ccp/the csm/etc.after that we can discuss the joys of red lining...(which i sincerely doubt happens with the csm nda, but who knows!)"
"i hope a future csm transparency initiative invalidate any non applicable claim of nda by a csm member, even if the nda is not un-nda-ed"
"that could be really interesting. the alliance leader or who ever has lp roles can set up an lp store (in their sov controlled stations) with doctrine ships, gear, etc in it.the more people your alliance has set red that you kill, the more lp you gather.war targets should be at a fixed rate to that, say ((reds = # lp) x 1.5)this would help subsidise your most active pvpers and ensure that active members are getting the gear supplied rather than neutrals and reds buying up the stuff and raising the prices or hauling it back out of null sec."
"i also believe there will always be a subconsious bias based on where you live and how you play."
"all right, fair enough, but then who should? or do you think that the the process should remain elective? assuming that the current process is flawed and ccp simply picking csm members is more flawed - the first of which we can stipulate to for purposes of discussion, and the second of which is a perfectly fair assumption for you to make, and one i would agree with - this statement is tautological. clearly, if a problem exists we should not replace it with a worse problem.however, if a system is imperfect but any identifiable alternative is even more imperfect then the present system is already is as good as its going to get and reform is not practical. on a better note for you, you identified 2 specific issues - potential vote-monitoring by power blocs and various means of vote manipulation, but you are not pushing those issues very hard and i haven't seen either a strong argument for why its important to fix them, nor hard data indicating the scope to which they are real problems rather than theoretical ones.what i would like to know from you is specifically what a reformed csm selection process would look like in your view, and why it would be a net advantage over the current system? what i am looking for especially is, is it an actual problem with this particular system, or are you running on a platform that essentially amounts to taking issue with the fact that certain people are getting elected?"
"my platform doesn't amount to an issue with specific people getting elected. i am of the mindset that reform is a good thing so long as it is reasonable and affects people fairly. i appreciate your logic in the context of alternatives but i think your looking at reform as a all encompassing effect on the state of being of an entire process. if i have a car that is by far the best car when compared to all the alternative cars, this shouldn't mean i can't swap out parts of the car to make it better. i don't wish to change the csm in it's entirety, merely reform aspects of it that i feel are problematic. vote manipulation by means of large scale account purchases and monitoring are in my view all part of the same theme as they relate to my platform. the process should be fair or at least as fair as an internet space election can be made."
"but how, specifically?anyone over 21 can runanyone can vote for whoever they want.what's not fair except that people are voting in a way you disapprove of?"
"plenty.there are currently no term limits.the erotica 1 policies do not extend to csm or csm candidatesthere are no rules or policies against buying votes with isk or other in-game items and services.there are no rules or policies against coercing people to vote by ganking or camping.there are no rules or policies against the wholesale purchase of eve accounts for the sole purpose of using them for vote padding.this, is what i feel is unfair about the process and if elected i hope to change."
"your feelings are just hurt, because we kicked your butt in our last wars. making you cry in a serious csm post and kicking your butt in a war is evil enough. if you want, i can add a grrr sol for you."
"best csm yet! +1"
"a couple more have announced they are running i think there is a wormhole town hall coming up for people to ask questions which will be a good time to see what people are like."
"some \"interesting\" clarifications between 2 cms x candidates that both were in csm ix...to me, it simply confirms that having more than one term per individual is detrimental to the health of the players' representations. support only one term per player and vote borat for csm x."
"here it is.if you don't like it i will pull it down and try again."
"i loved it, especially the endingmmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"the problem i have with the at situation is that it's an official event, and it was in part ruined because code decided to troll. that's no different in my eyes from wrecking an event at fanfest. if you don't want to take part, don't take part.i'm actually quite surprised you consider it as irrelevant as you do. people running for csm obviously care about eve, and the at is a big part of eve. turning a section of it into a joke and a scam for isk is pretty disrespectful, and it undermines the whole event. i do understand like you said though that you weren't involved, but is it something you'd consider doing in the future? i'd hope that the people i'm voting for wouldn't."
"i love hearing this from the inveterate carebear.hypocrisy tastes good in the morning. the likes of you, who have been trying to smother pvp playstyles in this game for literally years, do not get to lecture anyone about self interest."
"exactly. so why not elect a csm member who represents the highsec content creation play-style? someone who can give insight to ccp regarding wardecs, suicide ganking, baiting, scamming and other such shenanigans highsec villains get up to? sabriz has extensive experience in these as well as industry and corporation mechanics so would make a most excellent csm to represent these play-styles. you are correct that we need a balanced csm that represents all parts of the player base and that includes highsec wardeccers and suicide gankers."
"i don't think that code. really made a conscious decision to troll the at. a few of our people were interested in the tournament and put our names into the hat, but most of us had no interest in it at all. hence we were not able to put a serious team together. nothing was \"ruined\", and the response was disproportionate to the offense. many teams have failed to turn up for the at in the past and it was never a big deal.nevertheless, nothing of value was lost. the at is not \"a big part of eve\", it is a sideshow - an event of interest only to a minority of eve players. my personal opinion is that the at is exactly the sort of instanced, consensual, consequence-free pvp that has no place in eve online. frankly it is the sort of thing that the new order is supposed to be opposing on principle. a true alliance tournament, on the real spirit of this game, would be held in a neutral system somewhere - perhaps thera, for example, so that we all could observe or interfere, or gank the teams en-route to the tournament. now that would be an at worthy of this game."
"@ michael mach:i fully understand cores stance on the \"i made this and that happen\" - thing that you want to know about and that he is not trying to do that.he just doesn't want the extra attention something like that gives him and want's to do his csm wo"
"personally i would rather have a csm representative pushing for the big fixes the game needs for survival that respects the nda and delicacy of such changes, than a csm who can pin his name to half a slot change here, or other tinkering that while \"nice\" for those that can fly said ships, will do squat to keep the game alive long-term.core has clearly gone into bat for major changes, and has been influential in many ways, and he has made those efforts as clear as he can. if anyone is still \"confused\", go back and re-read it all and put some effort into understanding, rather than repeatedly coming back with nit-picking irrelevances.speaking as one of his regular fleet members, he is massively committed to delivering content in the game, and as others have pointed out, has attracted a good following for this. that said, this coexists nicely with other fleet specialists in provi, which has made provibloc (whether you love it or hate it) a great place to play the game for the last 3 years. that and his experiences back many years have given him a great insight into nullsec; from major moongoo milking coalitions, through genuinely small gang fighting (and here i mean less than 20v20), to the current provi-catch-thunderdome meta. he has earned the respect of blues and reds alike, and whether its win, lose, or draw, he is always back to go again, and that determination alone is worth having in the csm.you ask what has he done for the player-base he has influenced? plenty, and long may it continue.resoundingly, +1"
"cap stable's lanctharus recently sat down with endie for an interview:"
"you are not disagreeing with jayne here dude. he means the current corp mechanics are wrong in so many ways, for all the reasons you have quite elegantly narrated with several paragraphs of text. you took the ball and then ran with it 500 meters in the wrong direction."
"no, the opportunity for theft would imply that these groups would be able to hold assets or structures in the first place.these \"societies\" are not meant to replace corporations, which means that they shouldn't have wallets, assets, structures, etc. social metagaming, sure, like a coup d'etat or an awox... but anything more than that would require these groups having the ability to \"own\" anything valuable enough to steal, which would encroach on the niche currently held by corporations."
"two things here.first, the members of the csm are not junior game designers. they don't get to sit down at a computer and program their own ideas willy nilly - they are better viewed as a focus group or advisory committee, whereas the truly optimistic might even consider them subject matter experts. this is to say that i don't get to decide on what area of gameplay is developed or iterated upon, simply that i can advise ccp on which changes are good or bad depending on the development roadmap that they have already decided upon.this ties into my second point. ccp is indeed already working on this feature, but it is still in the very early phases of development. they don't know what they're going to do to the system, in fact they don't even know everything about the current system. all they've managed to do so far (publicly) is an agree on what to call this new proposal (day 1 minutes, page 14: \"societies\"). having brought this to their attention of ccp is only half the battle: through presentations, forum threads, and personal conversation we've been able to make this need known. the difficult part is making sure these changes actually target the pain points present in the current system, and don't go the way of industrial teams - that is, great in theory, but useless in practicality. that's where i hope to play my part. i will use my experience and my contacts in order to advise ccp on how these changes would affect both corporation management, as well as a social groups such as the npsi and incursion communities. this is similar to the sov redesign. ccp knows it's a problem, they know things need to be changed, and in order for that to be carried out they need players who are knowledgeable in that area of the game to help them. that's the key to making sure that ccp delivers a good product: co-operation between the players and developers, with the csm serving as a liaison between what is desired, what is truly needed, and what can actually be delivered.that's the role i hope to fulfil."
"rivr, i'm confused as to what it is exactly you're asking, because from what you've written it appears that i agree with you.when i say that being anti-social \"is wrong in so many ways\" i'm not saying that it's a suboptimal or invalid playstyle, i'm saying that it's unfortunately a necessary playstyle based on the mechanics that currently exist. what i would like to see is for the optimal playstyle to be a social playstyle, one that encourages the interaction with others and the formation of groups. my statement in the op refers to my desire to eliminate any barriers to the formation of groups that are both social, and effective.the existence of one man corps are a bane, but necessary for many people to operate in highsec. honestly, i'd rather people stay in npc corps then use the corp mechanics simply to acquire 0% tax, and isolate themselves in the process. one of the strongest parts of this game is the community itself, and it's simply a shame that some playstyles operate at maximum efficiency when working completely alone. that's what i'd like to change."
"i am glad to see manny running for the csm. i have known him for many years have flown with him and for him on numerous fleets and operations. i cannot think of anyone more qualified to be on the csm especially at this all too important time where what happens in the next year will have major impact on our game. very few can bring manny<U+FFFD>s experience and perspective to the table in dealing with the serious changes (sovereignty) that are in the pot right now. my vote is yours.best of luck bro!."
"yes just fly over to fanfest! beers shall be had!"
"why not just make a t3 exhumer -type ship that could fit an \"advanced shield unit\" in a high-slot which would basically make it invulnerable for x-minutes unless neuted, etc. ? would be time to get some new industry ships looking at how the majority of development lately has been pvp and sov-warfare related.you got my vote o.o"
"thanks for the support! as for the t3 exhumer, it does sound interesting and i have seen this idea pop up in the feedback and suggestions forum, but i'm not sure how it would work; i don't think it should be invulnerable, i think that's a little bit too much imo, so that would need tweaking, and yes i do agree there that it would be nice to get some new industry ships."
"yeah, a t3-barge would rock, alltho i agree with erika, invulnerable would be op. but yeah, give the t3 the extra high slot, have it fit a cov-ops cloack, give it a overheating bonus to shield tanks. make it a really tough nugget to crack. as a pvp'er, you won't know in advance, wether it's bait, or a miner that got caught off guard. and give it a drone bay to fit large drones"
"that would be a beast barge +1"
"that is an interesting point. perhaps a better drag drop and more intuitive tools would be enough. it would be something i think you would need to test to see how it feels. thanks for that. i will keep it in mind!"
"yeah, the pi-ui is horrid and needs a good upgrade asap. besides that, templates would be a good idea, since setting up pi-colonies is a painful, unfun process with all the clicks you need. and those who play it best would still get the best results, since not every template can be used on every planet equally. dumbasses can share their faulty templates all they like, they'll still get bad colonies and headaches.just imagine someone making a nice template for large ice world extraction and imagine someone trying to setup this template on a world just a little bit too large. or think of someone not taking his skills into account when trying a new template shared from someone else. hilarity ensues, still enough face palms for everyone involved."
"ash,i will say that i've read through this thread, and as i did i started liking your campaign more and more. your conversation with rixx showed very well your comprehension and thought process. like rixx, i'll say that i intend to have you on my list aswell.so, in your op, you state that you are playing in wormholes right now, and as i've been heavily involved in the wormhole community and was a wormhole candidate for csm9, i want to know your views on wormholes better, from your perspective getting involved in this area of gameplay.i've been a huge supporter of corbexx over csm9, and he has been the most exceptional csm representative for wormholes, and although you are playing wormholes now, you talk very little about advocacy as a csm representative (unless i missed it).that said, would you mind expanding on the following:1. what wormhole experiences have you had thus far?2. what are your views on the development and changes to wormholes from inception through hyperion?3. any thoughts on future changes or ideas you'd suggest for wormholes?4. would you support a furtherance of lore based wormhole content that is player or developer driven? both?comment: i am very impressed by your support of lore based content and agree with your points on the topic.5. what are your thoughts, experience, and ideas on pos mechanics and future development?6. what are your thoughts and ideas on corporate management changes or development?thanks for running for csmx and i look forward to following your campaign."
"it would just have to be something that is toyed with to see how good it feels.not all development can be done from the comfort of an armchair you know"
"you probably have never setup a factory planet. being able to share a factory setup that isn't dependant on positioning could lead to a p3-p4 product market crash and the massive demand of p2.even if you setup a template for the initial setup of, say, the launchers, the silo, and the processors while just leaving out the extractors is enough to be worth the 10-20 minutes saved in repositioning a colony.apart from that, i really don't know how you can make linking easier, as so many people have preferred setups and build ordering; automating the routing request, for example, could just become a headache for some people. don't get me wrong, the double-click fest is laughable, but i really don't know how else to do it unless you create a specialized mini-game app over the mobile platform for it."
"there is a lot of redundancy and extra right clicks in the process. you could streamline the pi process. this isn't a terribly annoying thing to be conquered. you shouldn't have to dread managing your colonies."
"i have 3 factory planets and 26 extraction planets across my two accounts. besides that, i don't have strong feelings for or against template sharing. i would like to be able to save templates, of course. an ui-upgrade to reduce clicks would be a nice consolation-price, too. honestly, after the last time i relocated my two pi-alts and the colonies of my industry-alt on the same day, i got a cramp. afterwards i dreaded moving planets so much, i put off moving the colonies of my main for several months, just because i hated all that useless clicking so much. at this point, i would accept even several consecutive market crashes if we can get sensible pi out of it."
"may papa gnome represent the great gnomeland of lawn at csm x!!!!!!!"
"i have been flying with thoric for a while now. irl he is a professional and will bring a high level of maturity and level headiness to the csm. he is experienced in eve as well as working with others and will be dedicated to cultivating strong proffesional relationships between the council and ccp.he has my vote.rish"
"go get em thoric, you have my vote!the dude lebowskii recruitment director - big diggers"
"i would like to o7 to lex ;_;rip no one has every called me a ****** with more loving care, lex m8 you always knew the best way to insult me.i literally cannot say rip enough times.i was more than thrilled to have made new eden renegades' alliance, now a shrine to lex.o7 lex, your clone has no upgrade costs in the heavens of jove space ;_;later this week i will be releasing a freighter full of conflag, the doves of this internet spaceship world, free into space to pay tribute to lex.o7 m8 ;_;"
"remove them completely, i would say.clicking this thread, i had hoped there was a worm hole representative from a small corp or alliance."
"i did reply to your in game mail friend"
"my first post : here details who i am and what i do, as well as an introduction to a few things to stand for. this post is more in depth, comprehensive list of just a handful of the issues i feel worth campaigning for to make the game betterso... my manifesto list of stuff that needs to be fixed (or that people think needs to be fixed).. after attending #eve_nt (spectacular event btw, if you are in the uk and nashh kadavr (see his blog here) is doing an event please come along it was great (stay tuned for his next one)). i had a chance to speak with some real life people (they do exist outside of eve) and with that in mind chat about some csmy type stuff.. so i now have a better, more comprehensive list of stuff to campaign for.this is in no particular order (except the new player thing thats top top top of my list of things that needs to be sorted)offgrid boosting for combat boosts reduction and or sorting (ie no off grid boosting.. the command ship should be in the battle or at least give reduced off grid boosts if it is done with impunity)- we have all been there.. small gang rocks through, the first scout, then a cloaky nullified, stabbed loki with full halo set and oversized ab or mwd... making it unscannable and/or uncatchable if you do manage to scan it down.. and giving that group of interceptors 50-100% boosts depending on how its set up.. i think this has been on the developement timetable for some time as fozzie and some others hate the idea of offgrid boosting (why have immunity for your boosts???) ishtar rebalance this is a difficult one, as mentioned above, but it does need to be looked at seriously as aside from machariel and or some other extremely expensive ship the only really effective counter for ishtars is more ishtars, the biggest problem facing eve - starting out the learning \"cliff\" as some described it as is is one of the biggest threats to the playerbase that eve has.. people sign up, play for a week, cant really figure out how or what to do and never convert from trial to full game.. as ccp guard said at the weekend, the eve playerbase is the best marketing tool, the highest figures have been seen for trials after battles like that in asakai, and br5. but the conversions from trial to account remains low. this is my top most priority as this will keep the game alive for the next 10 years potentially further[/]dockable supers talked about in my first post, a limited number of expensive slots for supercarriers to be able to dock at station. (5 per station total and only able to utilise if you have an office in that station) refundable skills similar to an attribute remap, once a year (two extra for new accounts as a \"bonus\") the ability to refund the skillpoints from a particular skill or two provided that it isnt a required skill to another skill. and limited to certian skills only (ie no ship skill refunds for combat ships such as gallente battleship) a modification to the training queue for anyone who has played dust, regardless of whether you have a skill in training or not your skill points accumilate into a pool (similar to the unallocated skill points that we all got back when learning tree was removed from the game). this would be good for eveonline. so if you finished a skill you could allocate the excess at a standard rate.obviously picking a skill and placing it in the training queue would gain the attribute bonus to training time so the incentive is still to fill up your queue, but this would allow a little more flexibility in terms of training specific skills where a required skill falls outside of your normal play time (say 2am etc)removal of jita... no just kidding, but the introduction of a system that tracks and deals with some of the \"isk doubling service\" type spambots - you all know the ones - that populate most of hte high-sec tradehubs would be nice. (i am not saying that the practice and art of scamming should be made illegal under the games tou, but you would have to physically have to be at the system playing the game to do it so no more afk making millions).the introduction of a player submitted content system not game mods like in say, skyrim or ui/game improvements as in wow addons etc, but if there is a really solid, really well thought out and careful lore based storyline or event that it is feasible to introduce into game but would need ccp help, then a formal way to get this to the ccp devteam so that they can discuss this further and possibly impliment the storyline/event/thing in game. homeworld style colouring of ships for those of you old enough to remember homeworld, and additionally, those of you who have played pirates of the burning sea, you will remember you had a large element of control over how the ships colours were represented in game. if we take the vexor for example, it has grey panels, blueish panels and some logos around the ship. homeworld 1 and 2, and potbs both allowed you to select a colour for each of these parts of the ship from an rgb based colour list. if for example i wanted to have a black hull with yellow details and bright pink decals i could have. and i could do this for every one of my ships individually. with the changes to the way ships are skinned in game i think this would be a spectacular opportunity to be able to fly in \"line colours\" with your alliance or corporation in a doctrine ship. [b] higher res, better corp logos additionally, in addition to being able to change colours of panels/sections of ship skins, have the ability to apply your corp and/or alliance logo to your ships. this list isnt exhaustive, but contains a top list of some of the things i would love to see in eve."
"consider my gauntlet thrown down for this debate."
"worf without make up, is that you? while i do not agree with all the changes and opinions you express, i do like the way you write and the attitude it seems to convey. +1"
"tf,can you maintain the same level of involvement and activity that corbexx has brought as a wh csm representative for the duration of the term?if yes, will you also be able to maintain tf wormhole advice column and your existing duties as a ceo of a corporation and alliance?"
"that's a good question, and a difficult one to answer. corbexx spent a hell of a lot of time grinding every conceivable type of wormhole pve so that he would have hard data to present to the csm and in particular ccp. it's in the minutes where he fact checks/body checks ccp (which was demonstrably ignorant of how poor the reward was) and the result was the increase in blue poo buy orders. your question is basically predicated on the notion that such epic feats are required not only of all csm's but at all going into the future. aside from the fact that it has by and large been done (and the fruits of corbexx's labours are apparent) i would turn this around and say - what epic feats of grinding ought i do to have an equal effect on the game?to answer that i can only say that i have a considerable amount of dissatisfaction with wormhole poss and in particular the efforts required to go into sieging them out. i am sure there hasn't been any analysis done by ccp or indeed anyone to the extent that i have done the sums and come up with a solution (which i won't share, because it's so damn effective) to structure grinds in subcaps. there's a lot i would like to do to guide poss into a different sphere of utility for people who use them as more than a fuel-using cash machine in nullsec handling moon goo and reactions. for instance, you're free to read my opinions on the matter on the forums and elsewhere. nullsec cash machines and moon harvesting crud can stop being a pos and be a different type of orbital module, imo. most moon goo poss are just smalls with no guns, pretected by the threat of a blob of blue donut supercaps yoloing onto field to defend the rf timer and/or remove anything jimmied up in the wrong place. often the biggest detriment to sov changes is the removal and flipping of poss and all the amazing gameplay attendant with onlining and offlining poss. slash sarcasm hashtag bluedonut.freed from needing reactions and moon harvesters the pos can become one or several types of starbase. defensive hardpoints aka deathstar/dullstar/dickstar/dampstars with lots of ehp and the like. maybe an industrial starbase with a one size fits all modular industrial setup. like, why the hell do we need small, advanced small, medium, advanced medium, large, advanced large, capital and supercapital assemblies? to manufacture more than one size of ship in a wormhole or any pos you need to over-invest in pg hogging pos trash. you want to see me get riled up and devote hours of effort to something? it's ranting about poss. it's coming up with insane pos fits (really, ask around for those who've seen our pos), insane and cunning ways of taking out deathstars (sekrit methods at play), and insane amounts of frustration at managing them. and yeah, you are right. this all takes time, and i do spend too much time probing chains of wormholes whilst simultaneously running an eve corporation, two companies in real life (part time), keeping my wife happy and the like. i'd rather work smarter and avoid repeating corbexx's odyssey of ratting to put the numbers and the ideas (well thought oout, fact-based and reasoned ideas) before ccp. and i'd love to spend less time probing and more time orbiting a 140m ehp dullstar in an oracle because poss are super fun!"
"this man is a genius, and the guy who taught me as a four day old newb to fly in wormholes, can flip flippers and generally take the road less travelled. i am also the ex bugry dude who had a blast fighting the blob in repo but the real star of that show was bei artjay.he is knowledgeable, lucid and bloody hilarious.got my vote."
"thanks to johnny up there, i have been lulled into spaceship politics and you sir, will be getting my vote. hat off. o/"
"nonsense :di will not say that corbexx's effort with the pve project was not an epic amount of work for someone to put in.i do hope that a csm representative maintains a certain level of visibility and activity (not something you have had a problem with). i also do not expect the same manner of visibility and activity of corbexx, as every individual is different and their impact should be judged solely on their actions alone. as others have pointed out in this very thread, your leadership and knowledge is also a driving force behind your corporation and alliance, and i would be hard pressed to ask them to lose you to burn out or other means."
"to give you a leading question: is not the thing that rubs industrial pilots up the wrong way the inability to turn the gank around? as it stands, they either have enough dps to blow the ship away too fast for the escort to do anything or they do not."
"if ccp set up a kickstarter and public investment/donations page for a proper dev & art team who have experience developing and creating a modular system that wis would need, i'd throw money in that pot for sure. realistically, how much of an investment would it take for a proper first release? $1 mil? $5 mil? $10 mil? i remember i got into eve for the first time after seeing one of the first wis demonstrations from quite a few years ago, thinking \"i need to jump in now before they release this and everyone's a part of this\".with the amount of $$ that star citizen has received for fish tanks and vanity ships, i'd think people would want eve to add this aspect to their already vibrant and successful game."
"a kickstarter project is probably the only realistic option (well ahead of the \"crazy generous millionaire\" possibility)"
"actually, one of the huge advantages of the new \"on-demand\" way that they will be loading eve assets is that functionality that might otherwise be added to another game client, can be added to the overall eve client without actually increasing the filesize for people who never use the wis features.i would hope that they could do this with project legion and valkyrie also. eve unity anyone?"
"imo on #1if ccp wanted a tv show, they should have made on for the sole purpose of expanding/progressing lore, start with the books and chronicles, and once those are done, move the plot forward with entirely original episodes set to show the background fo eve, what the npcs or important characters are doing, maybe throwing in hints for upcoming changes/projects/expansions (like for instance, with the latest t3's, could have cameo'd in the background of an r&d dock as a half built destroyer)it would be like star trek or star wars, except lots more large fleet fights, and better character development and intrigue than ds9 ever had"
"people want to include combat in wis. why not have a boxing arena or something to that effect, and then a means of betting on it.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"screw boxing i want my yu-gi-oh inspired mindclash battles!"
"i didn't say i wanted to limit the number of active wars. as in numerical number of active wars out of maximum (example: you have 80 active wars out of 150 allowed).i personally strongly opposereducing the costs of initiating and maintaning the upkeep of wars. thus making everyone think about what the war and keeping it alive will cost them.wars don't generate content or conflict. when a 1000 man strong alliance declares war on 10 people, those people will turtle up in stations and weather out for the duration. i don't see that as an increase in conflict generation.what would increase conflict generation, would be an option to declare yourself as a free target by others who have declared the same. basically, turning your pvp tag on. minimum duration - 1 week. i'm quite certain almost nobody would use that."
"this blog post, other feedback that i get and various things i have gleemed, do give me some misgivings."
"quick note to say thank you for the work over the last year and to say you have my vote for this year."
"someone already did the math to make mass purchasing of accounts an issue for 5k accounts is 75k us. also i'm pretty sure ccp would be ok with that since it adds money to the piggy bank so ccp wouldn't care \"probably\" the other two are part of a sandbox game. if you don't like it play a different game. why are you so against a way of playing a game? also if people are doing a good job like most of the csm9 have done why need a term limit other than to make it easier for you to get a chance at a free trip to ccp hq?"
"i have asked you before to please stop flaming my thread. if you don't have any questions that aren't loaded with incendiaries than stop posting."
"here's a question that you obviously missed.why are you so against a way of playing a game?"
"a purely practical question, then:how would you commit any of the above acts?i personally know i won't do any, because 1 and 2 are impossible to verify (and why bribe/coerce people when you can't know that they did as bribed/coerced to?) and 3 because it's hilariously stupid due to the costs and because the organisations with enough isk to buy plex wholesale already have the votes on hand.so now my interest is piqued. how would you in practice do any of these?"
"when i ran for csm, lots of people i know in game cheerfully offered to sell me their votes for amounts varying between 100m and 1b per vote. that seemed to reflect the general perception of the going rate.i counter-offered to beat any offer any other candidate made by at 1 iskif memory serves, i believe i paid out a total of about 6 or 7 isk to get elected. which was a relief, because i didn't actually have the 6 or 7 trillion isk it would have taken me at what they and you seem to think it should have, and it would have been a little embarrassing to have started my term with the biggest scam in eve history."
"also what do you mean by \"erotica1\" policies? breaking the eula is a disqualification before, during or after election.nb: merely telling people what they don't want to hear is not yet an eula violation."
"i am referring specifically to the misrepresentation portion of the policies that resulted from erotica 1. players are not allowed to impersonate other players or misrepresent themselves in the context of identity. example: a csm candidate could lie and say they are endorsed by somebody and the rules about misrepresentation would not apply to them."
"my questions1. there's a lot of back and forth over the supposed cloak camper issue, where do you stand on it?2. ccp has stated the \"pos code is scary\" and haven't done much work on it. is this something they should work on? should they replace the pos system with something else? if so, what should the replace it with?3. since you started play what are some of the changes you liked? dislike? what do you think could have been done better?4. ccp had a disagreement with csm member funky bacon. so the rest of csm and ccp created a new skype channel for the purpose of his exclusion . if this happened to you or another csm how would you handle that situation?"
"can you give an example of this occurring, or mattering if it did?"
"1. i am not very experienced with cloaking or camping so i would defer to somebody who was. 2. i think what they mean when they say that the code is scarey is that the amount of time it would take to actually \"fix\" it would take away from other problems being fixed. my understanding is that ~legacy code~ is a time vampire for ccp which means they will only really commit to it if there is no other choice.3. i loved the removal of clone costs, i used to be very averse to pvp because of how expensive my clones had become and since the removal of clone costs i have been roaming alot more. i disliked some of the faction warfare changes, specifically the re-spawning of npc rats. i would rather have had a single strong rat than a few that respawn over and over. the clothing could use some work, 32 x 64 texture resolution is just inexcusable at this point in the games history. if you can't make something that meets a minimal standard of looking better than warcraft or some other muddy art style than don't waste time making it. work on something else. 4. i am not picking sides but i will say that exclusionary tactics for the purposes of spite are foolish and counter productive. it's one thing to disagree with somebody and it's another thing to circumvent their ability to express themselves as a member of a team. if it happened to me i would keep my cool and try to address the issue through the proper channels. i am very interested in settling or resolving disputes, i think flaming or throwing mud only makes matters worse. as a member of the csm i would put my personal feelings and affiliations aside for the benefit of the effort that the csm stands for. i will give you a specific example.let's say i went to all the systems where the cfc has sov sitters, i tell everybody in local that i am the official first choice for the cfc ballot and that they should all vote for me because i was endorsed by le mittani face himself. i would be misrepresenting myself in the context of impersonation as it relates to the erotica 1 policies, however as a csm candidate those rules do not apply to me. in the context of the csm i am allowed to buy, cheat, scam, coerce all to get votes. it's stupid, just because i wouldn't ever do something like this doesn't mean nobody will."
"the change by ccp was specifically that players and groups were not allowed to say they are someone they are not, you can, are allowed, and since every actual scam ever requires it to some degree, encouraged to claim relationships with other groups for the purposes of subversion.what you are not allowed to do, is claim you are someone else by name or title, you cannot say you are a recruiter if you are not, as thats claiming someone else's identity by virtue of title, and you cannot say you are x or y as people because that is claiming their identity by association of an alt or somesuch phrasing.fact is, you are allowed to say you are \"a goonswarm ballot pick\" just like im allowed to go into n3 space and say \"yo im a friendly dont shoot trust me\", as long as you are not claiming someone else's identity its not against the rules. (or are you suggesting from now on all scammers/thieves should be required to put \"im going to empty the wallet if i ever get director\" on their recruitment request, else theyll be in violation of the rules if they ever do steal?)*edit* to your specific example, as far as my knowledge and experience of the changes go, you can say you are endorsed by the mittani, you cannot say you are someone's alt from goonswarm, saying your endorsed by the mittani is perfectly fine because your not misrepresenting your identity, your misrepresenting an association, which is entirely different"
"and the discussion of the interview is up:"
"if they're not providing any rationale for a ban, it's because ccp security is concerned that giving the person a reason would give them information they could use to work around the ban. it's for people that violate the eula so baldly that there's no possibility that they were acting in good faith.if you make csm, you will eventually learn how seriously team security takes this kind of operational security, but then you won't be able to tell anyone."
"there is also the fact that csm is not a two things that people seem to think that we are.we are not the internal affairs of ccp so we do not double check all the bans to make sure they are right. we see the stats of bans and the effects, we may advise on the wording of rules and such but ccp security are trained professionals whose job it is to keep the game 'clean'.we are not the human resources department. we have no effect on hires or fires nor should we. this came up at the beginning of last term and the smart thing to do is stay clear and send condolences to those who were laid off and to those left behind. congrats to people who move on to new jobs and new futures. these are people and their livelihoods. act accordinglymmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"+1. ultimately we simply need csm's that will help stem the tide of continued nerfs to the game we love. tora and sabriz will do that, others will not. in fact, there are way too many pansies on the csm as it is, and we don't need more of them to just nod"
"interesting interview by cap stable of ccp leelo and ccp falconthe main points that i like from their hour long discussion are the following- csm is truly seen as a focus group on a wide range of subjects, not just for new features and game design, but also broader aspects of ccp activity like marketing, communication, localization, .... - last year's switch to six week releases and the recent integration of confluence across teams in ccp (a collaborative project management tool i am pretty familiar with already ) will make csm x the first csm with direct input to the various project via confluence, with a visibility up to three releases down the road (although there are still super secret stuff that even csm will not see )- being on the csm is not anymore a chance to get to fanfest for free, allowing more focus on the summits' organization and the responsibilities that being on the csm entails. leelo is in favor of more transparency in regard to each csm members' activity and contribution. great news, down with the dead weights...- it is very natural in a democratic process that large groups are represented just by the weight of their constituency. the csm stv voting process does allows for more independent members to still be elected. totally agree on their analysis. vote for me! les points principaux que je retiens de cette interview entre cap stable et ccp falcom (community manager) and ccp leelo (rep pour la communaut<U+FFFD> russe et responsable du csm) sont les suivants:- le csm est vraiment per<U+FFFD>u comme un groupe de discussions sur de nombreux sujets, pas seulement limit<U+FFFD>s aux nouvelles fonctionalit<U+FFFD>s du jeu, comme le marketing, la localisation, les ventes...- le changement l'an dernier du cycle de sortie des nouvelles fonctionalit<U+FFFD>s, ainsi que l'int<U+FFFD>gration r<U+FFFD>cente de confluence (un outil collaboratif de gestion de projet avec lequel je suis d<U+FFFD>j<U+FFFD> familier ) fera du csm x le premier csm avec un acc<U+FFFD>s direct aux divers projets en cours et une visibilit<U+FFFD> sur les trois prochaines sorties (il y a encore des fonctionalit<U+FFFD>s tr<U+FFFD>s secr<U+FFFD>tes que m<U+FFFD>me le csm ne verras pas )- faire partie du csm n'est plus une chance d'aller <U+FFFD> la fanfest au frais de ccp, ce qui permettras plus de concentration de resources sur les sommets et les responsabilit<U+FFFD>s directes du csm. leelo, en particulier, est favorable <U+FFFD> la publication de rapports d'activit<U+FFFD> des membres du csm. bonne nouvelle, pour <U+FFFD>liminer les poids morts... - il est tout <U+FFFD> fait naturel dans un processus d<U+FFFD>mocratique de voir les plus grands groupes repr<U+FFFD>sent<U+FFFD>s par le poids de leur voteurs. le scrutin <U+FFFD> vote unique transf<U+FFFD>rable utilis<U+FFFD> par ccp permet aussi <U+FFFD> des candidats ind<U+FFFD>pendants d'<U+FFFD>tre <U+FFFD>lus. je suis compl<U+FFFD>tement d'accord. votez pour moi!"
"not really going to comment more on the at incident after this post. i'll reiterate i was not eligible to be part of the code. team due to the alliance membership tenure criteria, and so paid no attention to what we were doing. had the decision been mine to make, i would not have entered a tournament that code.'s nature (as mostly an alliance of low sp alts with very focused training) means we had no chance in.interestingly, my corporation (virtually none of whom met the eligibility criteria last time) could probably field a quarterway decent at team now as we've recruited some higher sp people that have long supported code. (like myself), but we don't have any intention to appeal the at ban or to apply for an exemption for individuals that weren't involved. part of eve is that actions have consequences, and i'm ok with wearing them."
"quoted for truth & quality.f"
"where do i buy that shirt?"
"okay, let us take that on the face of it. now, let us say that i landed up on csm. ccp come to us with a change they are thinking of putting through. i am the sort of person that would look at it from different angles, might even agree with ccp but argue against it until i am satisfied that all knock on effects and consequences have been thought through (on a game mechanics level). that might be rather useful.however, it misses something. it misses out on the player bases' general sentiment (how people feel about the changes). i like the jump fatigue changes. i would like to see black ops and industrial's fatigue bonuses reduced. if ccp listened to only people like me, there would be a lynch mob catching the first flights to iceland. csm and ccp need people like core on the very face of what you critise him for doing and being."
"corebloodbrothers is a really cool dude who works hard and provide a lot of good feedback. i would love to see him on csm x"
"i really enjoyed doing that interview, although the friendly approach lanctharus took did perhaps tempt me into some politically controversial statements."
"it is your duty to make controversial statements now.it may as well be your pleasure too."
"i don't see me running with the ball in the wrong direction. it is eve that we are talking about, ie. the only goal is to cause other players mischief. 1-man corps are the only way to spare you from that to a certain extend. how would you want to change something that works in perfect accordance with what eve is about: everyone vs. everyone? obviously, any change revolves around a full replacement of the current corporation system with something new, something better. what are your ideas on that? do you also keep those people in mind who give a flying scrapheap about social and simply do not want to interact with others? what about them? brute force inclusion, or will these people also keep their way of playing the game?side note: teams were not useless. it's useless players who do not invest brain into the matter. to me, teams were a fountain of good uses (even though initially i was strongly against them), both in terms of industry enrichment as well as intel tool to find juicy stuff to cause harm to. why do you see teams as useless?"
"i disagree. one man corps are the very opposite of an \"everyone vs. everyone\" playstyle. these proposals aren't meant so \"spare\" anyone, they are meant to empower new and existing groups. if you want to play eve alone, as a nomad, or as a hermit.... go right ahead, i'm not going to stop you from doing what you enjoy. what's not fine is that an optimum playstyle is forcing people to play like hermits in order to guarantee their safety and/or profits. i didn't, ccp did. whether or not they were useful, they didn't see widespread use and were widely forgotten. this emphasizes my point that no matter how good a tool is, it doesn't matter if players don't use it. the reasons why the players choose not to use the tool are irrelevant."
"to be fair industrial teams weren't deemed \"useless\", just not what eve needs right now. the idea's been shelved until other aspects of the game are updated."
"agreed. the biggest issue with supers is that they're too vulnerable solo or in small groups but when massed have a nearly unbreakable spider tank. don't forget that the battle of br- was decided by titans coordinating their dds to alpha other titans."
"...the csm is in dire need of a harry saq ...(hmmm...that sounded better in my head)perhaps it would be better if i started with introducing myself.my name is harry saq and i have been playing eve on and off since the game was first released. i have quit and renewed my accounts for similar reasons most do (mix of rl and just grrrrr eve), and have a special place in my heart/excelspreadsheets for this wonderfully frustrating mmo. the thing that has always intrigued me, and continually brought me back was the enormous potential this game has. the reasons i have left and disavowed all loyalty externally was for that potential being squandered (not necessarily intentionally or maliciously).in other words, i have been through the cycles of love and hate, and made all the mental proclamations and conspiracy claims imaginable to account for the greatness and shortcomings of this game similar to what i am sure most seasoned and even new players have. so instead of offering a litany of nuanced stratagems or wild fantastical hopes and dreams i might have for this that or the other thing this game could do, i would rather like to offer my services as a player facilitator and advocate for quality game change, that focuses on a better experience for us all.eve is only a game, however it is a game that dares to throw us all in one universe and offer us the tools to both shape the places we reside, as well as hang ourselves most embarrassingly and painfully. over the lifespan of eve ccp has taken many funky steps in various directions to do everything and nothing in an attempt to both commercialize their product to a broader customer base and fulfill all of our wacky idiosyncratic desires (and theirs as well...and some of their desires are kind of scary). of all that has been said about ccp, it cannot be said that they haven't produced something worthy of attention, and as of late, it can also not be ignored that they are starting to grasp how to actually release the potential this game so promises, through incremental change.i have seen several topics over the effectiveness and use of the csm, and i feel some of the more recent trains of thought simply miss the point. any change process has a development life cycle, and alot of the time catalysts to change are incredibly subtle in their origin and sources of influence. some see the csm's place in that lifecycle as the final check box in approving some upcoming release, or an entity that must be listened to during backroom talks and strategy meetings. some have even lamented over their influence being overshadowed by bloggers and popular websites. regardless of any stated purpose or intended role the csm has, implementation of any process always settles into places not planned due to human factors, both in usefulness of those involved and how their messages are carried.the csm has been around for awhile, and quite frankly is only as effective, active and useful as those in it. what i plan to bring to the csm, if elected, is an active reasoned/rational voice whose agenda is to facilitate the change process so that the game remains challenging, engaging, and worth logging into (regardless if my personal preferences are catered to or not). the csm is as useful as we make it. if we are not included in the conversation, than we must be proactive in seeking out and engaging in the conversations that matter. so rather than lament whether i am being listened to, or whether a release was approved by a council i am on, i will seek to actively represent the player base by presenting the perspective of those that play when the opportunity is there, and creating that opportunity in as many ways as possible. in other words, both the player base and ccp have unique and sometimes conflicting perspectives and motives that need to be navigated through in order to make a product that continues to capture the imaginations of those that play while drawing in many more new peeps to play with! <-- that sounded slightly dirtier than intended...elect me, and make ccp reason with your harry saq!"
"how do you feel that living in null has effected your industrial side, for better or for worse? and at the couple changes you described regarding an extra high on a barge/exhumer, why do you feel an extra high would be better than say, more pg so you can fit a large extender, or a bonus to shield extenders, or an extra mid instead of high so you have a higher chance of surviving an empire gank/ give you more time to get backup if you're stuck in null. regarding missions, do you have any ideas already on how you would like to see them go, or something added to make them less repetitive?"
"i'm on the 6th pi development. i've had to breakdown 5 times. i'm no stranger to the pi cramp. lol. having extractor planets, i'm sure you're no stranger to repositioning the heads now and then.if ccp could, let's say, create a pattern for the extractor nodes, like the new probes setup, that alone could save much time.also, if we could do group routes instead of doing each factory/processor individually, that too would be great. i know i've tried many times to ctrl click a group and do it all once, but it doesn't work like that.a third thing they can do is remote access to launch into/transfer from poco's, unless someone can make sense as to why we should have to be in space in the same system (not docked) to do this. this is the future dangit!"
"if the only thing that changed was that all the dialogs that amount to \"are you sure?\" were replaced by a single \"make it so\" button, so that all your design was virtual, and the interactions modeled, until you finally decided you were ready and done, that would eliminate much of the redundant clicking immediately."
"have known migui ingame for a while and can<U+FFFD>t think of a better csm candidate.+1"
"by the way, cap stable interviewed ccp leeloo and ccp falcon!"
"finally had time to catch up on some of the other interviews! that was nice! thank you!"
"sion, i have a question about something you touched on in your latest cap stable interview, regarding the reality of the csm versus what you imagined initially, before being elected to the csm.it also has to do with agile with scrum, and i'm basically wondering how much of an impact the shorter development cycle has on the effectiveness of the csm. my naive impression is the shorter development cycles reduce the lead time available to you.eve's new release cycles are two weeks longer than the development cycles prescribed in agile with scrum. is some of that additional time used to incorporate the csm into parts of scrum?also, does the csm participate in scrum meetings (perhaps via conference calls), such as backlog refinement meetings, sprint planning meetings, or daily scrum meetings?what provisions have ccp and the csm implemented to integrate the csm into the development process since adopting agile with scrum?the cap stable interview of ccp falcon / ccp leeloo (released today) included discussion of csm 9 in the development process. ccp leeloo's description of csm access to the develpment road map sounds one-way, and delayed by a week between updates. is there anything you'd like to add?for example, on which side of the scrum master does the csm reside?"
"removing them could be an option, however how would you deal with the shattered wormholes. a reduction of total mass and removing the regen, would mean they wouldn't last so long and be able to collapse them."
"what nullbear isn't? but, seriously folks, for those that don't read titles, my name is aiwha and i'm running for csm 10, you might have seen me shiptoasting around the eveo forums or in a local chat ingame. i'm an active member of s2n a la n3 a la bob... 4.0? or is it 5 now? any way, if you're cfc we're the bad guys (grrgoons ect), if you're not we're the good guys, and if you don't care you're lucky. but that's all besides the point. the point itself is, you should vote for me as a member of your tenth csm to ccp. i've been an eve online player for six years, and in those six years, i have been \"average\". i've run level iv missions in highsec with the occasional frigate roam to lowsec, and did okay. i've been \"the tiny inconsequential alliance nobody gives a **** about\" in nullsec and gotten beaten to death by a more serious power, and did okay. i've done a little faciton warfare, and did bad. (it was bad.) ((we were bad.)) (((i am so, so sorry about that.))) now however, s2n and n3 are one of the big superpowers busy making angry eyes at each other whilst furiously milking our renter cashcows for isk to throw at each other. while my lifestory in eve pretty much revolves around nullsec. on the side, i've also dabbled in wh living and exploration. highsec manufacturing, and the exciting counterpart to \"skill queue online\", \"researching blueprints online\". (which is \"fun\" in the same way staring at a cake you didn't actually make in the oven is \"fun\")most of you don't care about that though. most of you care about why i'm asking for your vote. i want your vote because odds are, i understand the basics of your lifestyle. i understand enough that i can voice your comments and concerns to ccp when shown the upcoming content to eve online, and do my damnedest to see that your concerns are met with the response that they deserve. i want to be the guy looking out for the best interests of everyone. i want your vote because i want to listen to your story, and represent your concerns to ccp.this is the part where i tell you things that i personally want to see changed/introduced/adressed. i'm going to try and keep it short, simple, and organized.nullsecmoar structures! not timers, structures. stuff that can be blown up to make other people miserable. ihubs are nice, but why are the ihub services not like station services? why can't i spend 8 hours in a sb blowing up that sexy little wh generator that's just asking for it? moar station*!*wrecks destructable stations. personally, i think that's the holy grail of sov warfare. **** hellcamps, if they won't undock, burn it to the ground. remove keblob! while giant 2000+ fights can be fun to hear about, they're a little less fun to actually do. we need to find a way to spread all the love and lag around so that its not just the big guys grinding against each other all day. buff blops! just a little bit. so sb's and bloppleships can be the those daggers in the dark they all were born to become. wormholesmore newbies! wh space is desolate. (its not dead, but its very empty) i want to promote more ways for newbies to see both the riches and danger of wh space, and become a new generation of crazy mad max capsuleers. more movement! originally, ccp designed wh space as a place for us to temporarily inhabit before returning to known space. the forefathers said **** that and pioneered the modern wh lifestyle, and ccp thought that was cool as **** and let them stay. i would like to see more options for expeditionary style gameplay in wh's as well as the current lifestyle. (more people moving around means more chances for pew too) industrypi rework! pi needs a little love. i mean, its called \"passive\" income, but goddamn my finger hurts from all the clicking. blueprints! remember what i said about watching cakes bake earlier? if you read it? its boring. you stick it in a slot, and wait till its done. give people the ability to speed up their blueprint copying/researching by doing something besides just training patience to v. mining less clicking than pi, but equally soul crushing. it needs help. minigames? interactive in capsule strippers? something. anything. highsechighsec is pretty balanced actually. at least in my opinion. tank your haulers and don't whine when somebody tanks their hauler.ship balance t2 resists for recons! faction dreads! 2nd racial dread at least? you know, just for variety. i like dreads. loreits getting kind of awesome. keep it up. more events like the t3 destroyer introduction with in game consequences would be cool.see something you like? see something you dislike? have an idea or concern that isn't addressed?eve mail meallow me to repeat.eve mail mei will read (and try to respond) then write down everything i can from anyone that asks, and if i am elected, will keep a semi organized folder of your concerns on hand for all discussions with ccp and the rest of the csm. i don't want to just be a csm, i want to be your csm.as an avid forum warrior, i will do my best to answer any questions, comments, or concerns you want to leave here. thanks for your time, fly safe."
"these aren't bad issues to address. keep presenting your ideas to fix them."
"delete this one and try again"
"battleships are underpowered but nerfing frigates is not the solution. the real problem is that hacs and t3s outperform battleships in nearly every way."
"whichever way is best the battleship situation still needs to be addressed, as with all others as viability. whether battleships feature some form of point defense, and/or frigates/interceptors are weaker (in terms of damage) vs battleships, that is to be discussed.either way they need sorting."
"how comfortable are you with math? because it seems that the problem is that there is a pivot point beyond which sig radius becomes especially punitive, and battleships are on the wrong side of that pivot point coming and going: their vast footprints make them easy targets for bombs and all weapon types south of doomsdays, and their weapons can't hit anything with a small sig radius. battlecruisers are in a similar place, except that they use the same weapon systems that cruisers do except that they die to everything; so there's not really any reason to prefer them to cruisers. then you bring hacs and t3s and attack battlecruisers into the discussion, and the discussion is over.would you feel comfortable contributing to a discussion involving what amounts to a complex geometry problem? or would you prefer to state a preferred outcome and leave the math to others?"
"when i said i was a science teacher, i could have been more specific, i teach physics to 11-18 year olds, 16-18 would be a level which is advanced \"requirement\" for entry to most universities, so having a look at the signature radii of the different ships would be something i would be interested in. if that offers a potential fix for a problem without reducing the utility of other ships elsewhere, or alternatively making other ships more massively powerful, then i am all for every avenue.. we stopped using bcs a while ago in nullsec, , bubble, kill the anchor, 6 bombs.. fleet dead! might as well lose 200 dps and take ishtars, tengus or torp bombers!"
"+1i went to null in a t1 incursus and had no one in system for 22 jumps. where are these renters even they speak of. my pirate journey:"
"1) you don't think that the ability to run a lvl 4 mission that can net you 90,000 lp in tier 4 does not influence the war? you don't see how doing a single mission in t4 can help the 'winning' side spend the 10 minutes of a single mission to bump a passing lvl 0 system up to lvl 3 with a laugh instead of a grunt to a faction that cannot run these in a ship it takes 1 month to train into, cannot be easily caught, and can make it through the entire warzone safely, with a shrug to 30mil if it is lost. if you don't see how unbalanced this is for the winning side, i don't think you understand fw stabbed d-plex infuence, how tier affects alt fw missioners that jump from one alt to another to run these for the 'winning' side, how much market influence non-pvp'ers have on the items pvp'ers depend on also, or how ridiculous it is to tilt the scale back to the losing side against the large collective farming horde that sustains t4 through the measly donations of the few.for the above to not be true, you would have to introduce a mechanic that forces dps to be on field for defensive plexing now too, and create a restriction to t2 hulls from entering fw mission complexes. done. mission spammers out, caracals (which can be fought and caught and chased from system to system still viable) still in, solo pvp-avoidance lp gains also out.this alone is the biggest failure of the southern fw zone, and how annoyed pvp'ers are at the failure of fellow militiamen to keep the plexing battle up. this is one reason why caldari can never sustain tier 4 for long. the majority of their players begin the mission life while gallente keep bumping their systems down, as gallente cannot run these in bombers, but only in ships worth over 100mil-1bil.2) fw may be on track offensively plexing-wise, but not defensive plexing. not when an empty frigate hull can hang on a button afk and wait on a timer, and not when a losing faction is getting the shaft on t1 rewards that dishearten the green and unfocused.please review what i think are facts currently being seen in the warzone and review your answer. this option to fuel the war-effort, as you put it, should be availble across all factions? you may say, 'yes, they already are!' but there is a reason nubs in gallente milita get shut down when they ask for bomber fits for missions. create an alt and try and see what answers/laughs you get. this change will not only affect bombers, but doing them in t3's as well (which take quite a bit longer to skill into, and hurt much more to lose). it will hurt you as much as it will hurt us that do them in ishtar's or strat. cruisers."
"the solution above gets very little feedback from others, but it is the cleansing fire we need to smoke the farmers out and renew the small gang in your war zone. it'll sting now, but the amputated infection will save the body."
"just wrapped up the \"vote for me\" spectre fleet, which was exhausting and satisfying, even if i spent half the fleet podded. i spent a solid half-hour before the fleet talking about my platform with the different members of spectre fleet, which i will elaborate on later. i spent a solid 2 days before that arranging everything: finding good spots to hit, figuring out which doctrine to use, arranging a premade fight, etc. thanks to jayne fillon and mike azariah for helping arrange the whole thing and providing extra atrons for quick reshipping when fleet members got repeatedly blasted. the fleet involved a roam into nullsec and a tour to faction warfare, and while many ships were blapped quite a few juicy kills were had. the most interesting part was a question asked during the fleet preparation.someone asked how newbros would learn to duel, rather than just blob everything. the question resulted from me talking about getting newbros involved in pvp; one of the members groaned, saying the last thing eve needed was more newbros learning to blob. blobbing has been a large part of pvp for me, mainly because i've learned the concept of a fair fight in eve is laughable at best, but not only does that deprive solo pvpers of content, it also leaves newbie pvpers ignorant of combat intricacies that get lost in \"throw all the ships in\" tactics. the dual mechanic is nice, but that doesn't nudge interested players towards it by itself.so what if there were competitive missions? from there, an idea is shaped. special hisec missions involving travel through cramped wormhole spaces where frigates fight 1v1 above lost planets, a form of instancing. the respective governments provide specially-designed ships and modules to the players for the mission; \"regular ships can't travel through these microholes, after all.\" players can customize their fits for each type of mission, and the game remembers these fits and provides them each time they repeat the mission. an expansion of the rookie ships and civilian modules from something used solely by newbros and cyno-lighters to a platform for the purest dueling eve can offer: no t2 or deadspace modules, no implants, no boosts, just you, your skills, and your opponent.i find the idea intriguing, and wonder if this could become a unique feature to hisec.(note this is extremely similar to my previous idea of providing free respawning low-power ships/modules to new players for a week to experiment with. and could probably be tied into it. it's a shame how rookie ships and civilian modules are outgrown/discarded as quickly as possible, and i think/hope they could play a greater role in the education of eve newbros with some tweaking.)"
"this question was asked of me in the brave subreddit; i'm reposting my answer here, since it's a succint summary of my thoughts on the newbro experience.question: if you could change 5 things related to a new player's first days in-game, what would they be?what the newbro experience is currently missing is an emphasis on exploding cheap ships and exploring/experimenting. wormholes are a key facet of that. emphasis on wormholes. wormholes are the easiest way for newbros to dip their toes into lowsec and nullsec and figure out which system they prefer. tutorial goals set in lowsec/nullsec/w-space. goals like \"mine some arkanor\" or \"scan down a wormhole gas site\" or \"see a warp bubble\" would help newbros realize they're not restricted to just hisec starting out. emphasize cheap ships, blowing them up. a newbro spending all his cash on a giant ship and subsequently losing it stupidly is the kiss of death for new accounts. likewise, an emphasis on applying for corporations without being scammed by them. veteran eve players are more likely to keep playing even if they get scammed out of everything; newbros aren't. a way to quickly get blown up over and over again to start without going through buying and refitting everything again.* perhaps change the rookie ships and civilian modules so if you get blown up in a rookie ship, it respawns at the next station you dock in with the same civilian modules you had outfitted in it. that's notably a rather big idea, and prone to tweaking as i ponder what consequences that'd have.*i suspect the biggest obstacle to outfitting a new ship and returning to space after getting blown up isn't the money to buy it, but the time and effort finding all the parts and refitting it. it's a nasty speedbump if you just want to get out and try again, especially if you're a newbro that doesn't yet get the finer details of fitting."
"day 1 of lowsecin attempt to understand more about lowsec, a region i am wholly ignorant of, i resolve to spend a couple days in lowsec. the end of the spectre fleet last night gave me the perfect opportunity to move there. for support on this endeavor, i'm relying on advice from spectre fleet, the stay frosty pirate corp, and a group of test members that are vacationing in lowsec to third-party faction warfare.after noticing how quickly my security status plummeted after a bit of third-partying on the spectre fleet, i decide the only way to do this for any length of time and still be able to visit jita is to join a side of fw proper. here i hit my first snag: i need to leave my corporation to join fw, unless my corporation also joins fw. my corp isn't too keen on getting shot at by npcs in hisec, and i don't want to leave my corp, so the only option to join fw is to dust off an alt. i buy a plex, activate his training queue, and hop onto him in the first time in months.here i hit my second snag. i want to join the gallente militia, so i head to a gallente-owned system in caldari space. i dock up at a station and try to join factional warfare... and the only option is to join the caldaris. confused, i fly to another system and try again... still just caldari. it takes several tries before i realize it depends on the faction of the station you land in, not the system itself; i head to gallente space to find a gallente station. i find one in a caldari-owned system, dock, and join the gallentes... only to immediately to be denied access to the station market. \"the caldari owners do not like you.\" i blink for a few moments, trying to process that i can't join gallente at a gallente-owned caldari station, but i can join them at a caldari-owned gallente station... and immediately get banned from redocking at the station for doing so.next, i want to find a corporation involved in fw to do some group assaults. my initial search produces a laugh when i find an ad that combines \"new-pilot friendly\" and \"minimum 15mil sp requirement\", but then another chatter in the stay frosty public channel refers me to his own corporation. their advert looks appealing, but they have a full api requirement; i'm not too keen on the thought of sharing my main's emails in brave, so i tell their recruiter upfront i'm an alt and ask if they can make an exception. despite being referred by a corpmate, he turns me down: \"we have enough trouble with spies getting in as-is, we can't make an exception. i get the feeling it'll be extremely tough for me to find a fw group that will take me in if a 130-man corp has spy troubles.in the meantime, i've made my first fw pvp fit: an afterburner atron that should fit the \"king-of-the-hill\" gameplay of fw. gathering all the components requires visiting 3 different stations, which makes me nervous; what if i buy components at a caldari-owned station i can't dock at? wish i could filter the regional market by \"can dock at station\". once that's done, i jump to find an active fw system.my first rookie node (only t1 frigs allowed) has me nearly shoot a friendly rat and earn 0 lp for controlling it for 15 minutes; apparently the system wasn't contested enough, so i move on. my second one, a small node (frigs and destroyers allowed), i quickly warp out of when i see 2 destroyers camping the site. my third, another rookie node, i finally hit paydirt: i see an enemy merlin orbiting the node when i warp in. he flees before i can fire the first shot. i shrug and begin orbiting. a few minutes later, a neut frig warps in to third-party me. it's a close fight, but he has an edge in damage, so i burn away from his scram and warp off with half-structure. with that, i dock, repair, and call it a day.the players actually participating in fw seem outnumbered by the players third-partying it, probably due in-part to being required to leave your corp unless your corp joins fw as well. i wonder why that requirement was implemented in the first place and what effect it would have if it was lifted; could be interesting if there was a privateering mechanic that let players fight for either side on a whim without leaving their corp.i plan to try out more of lowsec in the upcoming days, now that i've established myself."
"tl;dr - wants lowsec turned into highsec so can pve more?i guess with all this he still wants the rewards of lowsec missioning calm down miner. as you pointed out, people think they can get away with stuff they would not in rl... like for example illegal mining... - ima wreckyou*"
"op has been added to watch list. may his death be big and expensive. from one carebbear missioner to another . stfu."
"ya i agree let's move the frivolous newb harassing to low sec not high sec. if a large group of dedicated pvpers want to fight go to low sec or null or wh space. all you've accomplished is makin sure ccp doesn't have the funds or fan base in order to grow the game bigger better faster. how many tens of thousands of players have been driven out of eve so a few hardcore players had something to laugh about or time to kill. find your ego feeds elsewhere not at yours and everyone else's expense. could ccp make more opportunities for fights with new game mechanics or more reasons to venture into low sec... for sure! so maybe people should be lobbying for better low sec content instead of making war decs(anti-recruiting) easier."
"had a fruitful chat with some random people i found in eve today."
"ok, now we're getting somewhere. i presume that the below list you provided for another poster lays out the areas you think are problematic:first, the \"erotica 1 policies\". to my understanding any policies surrounding erotica 1's behavior had to do with treatment of people online in various formats, not misrepresentation of who one is. i am unclear on how this relates to the csm.on to the others:term limits - i am unaware of anyone serving more than 2 terms on the csm, but i could be mistaken. however, this aat least seems to be true for the vast majority. csm members commit a great deal of time, are unpaid, and lose much of their actual gameplay and seem not to run anyhow after 1 or 2 terms so i don't see why term limits are needed as it appears self-limiting. can you explain why they are needed?purchase of accounts: this seems to mean money in ccps pocket if it is done, and appears to be impractically expensive in terms of real-life dollars. seeing as the csm is purely advisory and a tanginble benefit - the financial health of the company that makes the game - is demonstrably helped, why is this a problem? what should be done, and why? is it practical? can you explain?on the ganking and in-game vote buying: again, the csm is purely advisory, and these behaviors are in keeping with eve's tradition, history, and market appeal. why are they problems that need to be solved, and what is your proposed solution?finally, one other question - obviously the csm will not spend all of its time on your issues. what do you plan to advocate for when not dealing with csm-selection-related items?"
"i am happy to do whatever else needs doing."
"you really didn't answer any of my other questions, so i'm still curious to know why the issues you are running on should be regarded as problems?as for whatever else needs doing, what does that entail? are you saying you should be elected because you'll be happy to do all of the typing and other grunt work csm members seem to do? that is an interesting plank in your platform."
"do you ever answer questions?"
"here we see why you're a bad candidate. several questions to your platform, no answers.the same with me earlier, the same with many people earlier.so again, let's clarify:- your platform is, for all i can see, irrelevant to the game. to several areas of game design, your answer is \"i'd defer to someone who knows\", and while it's positive that you would only speak up when you know something, i don't think a silent csm member is proper.- your platform seems mostly born out of a lack of ability to acknowledge why you don't get elected. it's because people don't vote for you, and do vote for other candidates. candidates they like and support, and who will champion their issues. that's the basic function of any democratic process, yet you want it changed.- the specific issues you bring up are either non-issues or so impractical, they're also non-issues.- your lack of understanding of both the csm, the election process and at times even your own platform is problematic.- you are unable to answer questions, and strawman them if you ever refer to questions you've received.then we have your history, your own claims of your \"constituents\", and what genuinely looks like the classic megalomania-trope, and you wonder why people don't see you as a respectable candidate.this has nothing to do with fear of your platform, by the way. i'm very amused by your antics, and as said before in this thread, i would like you to run again, and again, and again, because i enjoy watching your flailing at even the easiest thing in a campaign.lastly, i just realised what your slogan could be!\"xenuria, because i do whatever needs doing, unless it's answering questions, talking sense or ingame-related. vote xenuria!\"you can have that one for free."
"lorelei, you have my support. maybe the op title could be a statement rather than a question? i would like this to be eve's year.i have a dreamthis galaxy will rise up,and live out the true meaning of its existance:\"we hold these truths to be self-evident, that all pilots are created equal.\"i have a dream that one day on the red hills of minmatar, the friends of former carebears and the newbies of former sov owners will be able to sit down together at the table of brotherhood.i have a dream that one day even the waste land of low sec, a space sweltering with the heat of injustice, sweltering with the heat of barrenness, will be transformed into an oasis of thriving systems and conflict.i have a dream that our four types of space will one day live in a galaxy where they will not be judged by the alliance they are in (except goons ) but by the content of their character. i have a dream today!"
"thanks to cap stable for interviewing me, and for all the good work they do to shine the spotlight on would-be csm members & inform the community. <3also, gotta bwarp my own euphonium: i received an award! i picked up the \"community mvp\" award in noir.'s black mark awards for 2014."
"gevlon goblin raises a good point in his blog today.what the point of players' corp for high sec solo players with the current wardec mechanics?"
"i agree.. that was good!!"
"i am trying to think of a good one for podside. it's difficult to decide on the video but i do have an idea of what i want to do and i am working on gathering video and finding good audio from the podcast."
"mike's a good guy and a great csm member."
"updated the third post with a recommended voting order. this is subject to change if other exceptional candidates are brought to my attention; or, for that matter, if other fair or good candidates want to make a cross-endorsement deal."
"sure something of value was lost, something which, unlike mining barges, cannot be simply purchased back. i seem to recall cannibal kane actually posting that he was at least miffed that code hadn't taken the tournament seriously, as he one day hoped to participate - if you can't take his opinion as an authority on hi sec content creation as worthwhile, i think you are a little daft. you lost credibility. you lost face. good luck trying to get those back.i could just as easily disparage ganking as something that only appeals to, as well as only being relevant to, a minority of eve players. i won't though, because i'm not so pompous and full of my own self congratulatory drivel that i have to vomit it up all over the place. i would recommend actually participating in the tournament before you make a judgement, but that's sort of impossible now, isn't it?"
"look vic, sabriz has stated quite clearly and (one would have hoped) finally his views on the events surrounding at. while not wishing to discourage meaningful debate on any issue relevant to his candidature, my feeling is that he has now sought to draw a line under this particular incident.no doubt he'll correct me if i'm wrong."
"i'm actually happy sabriz responded to my posts. that post is entirely quoting and responding to haedonism bot."
"application formally submitted with all required supporting documentation (passport scan, etc)."
"thanks sabriz! now i can be really lazy!"
"you have a lot of good points and suggestions for how ccp should go forward with the hisec changes, and out of all the candidates flying under the \"we want a better hisec\" banner, i feel your proposals stick to the spirit of what eve is about.i do have a couple questions, and forgive me if you've been asked them earlier, but i just want to know your opinions on two things hisec related in particular.so the first thing i'd like to hear was what your stance on ganking is in it's current state. i'm sure you have some form of opinion on this since you're in the most (in)famous ganking alliance. imo, ganking is a very legitimate play style, but is somewhat risk adverse, as you go in fully aware that you're going to be losing the ship you're flying, and as a result there is little to no risk to the ganker. i was wondering if you have a plan to add risk to ganking or if you disagree and feel ganking is in a good place as is.secondly, i feel as though non-fw lowsec is, for the most part, pretty dead compared to hisec. part of the problem i feel stems from the fact that there is little reason for hisec bears to move into low when the risk outweighs the reward, for example, how miners can make equal amounts of money mining in a 0.8 system as they could mining in a 0.3 system. i was wondering if you have an opinion to the lack of reward vs risk that non-combat oriented playstyles have in lowsec, and if so, how you would change it if you could."
"the ganking stuff has already been discussed, short version: ganking needs more activity from white knights to make it more interesting for both parties. this thread does contain a few discussions of ideas to work in that direction.interested to hear what sabriz has to say about low sec though."
"hi vic, i get that. thx!"
"ganking (both of freighters and of miners) isn't totally risk averse. i've lost an ishtar and a hyperion to killrights related to ganking (although i'm somewhat of an exception to the norm as i gank on my main and do not run -10; in fact sabriz has always been 0.8 legal and almost always 1.0 legal). ganks can be disrupted which normally results in a ganker losing a ship for no gain. it's just that while anti-gankers can effectively defend an individual specific freighter (particularly if the freighter pilot trusts the anti-gankers), they can't protect *everyone*. where anti-gankers can be effective is teaching the pilots of noncombat ships basic opsec - something code's most vocal rivals at the moment refuse to do. i post a lot of courier contracts as a trader, and see a few repeat names that accept them often - these people never lose ships despite often carrying highly gankworthy cargoes (such as a recent contract where i had someone move 2.4b worth of t2 ships, or another where someone moved 3.5b worth of tech 2 components).currently there's two main factors that disrupt -10 operations in highsec - faction police, and players being allowed to shoot you. i'd endorse changes that keep the sum of these factors about the same, but increase the power of players to disrupt ganks.but most of all, the mechanics of mining encourage players to spread out and (outside deep null where belt rats are more of a factor) strongly discourage players from bringing any sort of combat escort to mining operations. i would strongly endorse changes to mining mechanics that made bringing combat escorts more worthwhile. sites with both lucrative ore and rats would be an interesting starting point, and i'd endorse a 'claim' system on these sites akin to what steve ronuken has proposed in the past (where one corporation can claim a site via some method, possibly driving off rats, and mining that site then becomes a suspect level offence for other people). balance would be key, however - as any change to mining throughput could increase supercapital proliferation.as for risk versus reward in non-fw lowsec.first mining - lowsec is arguably the most dangerous place to mine, and has terrible rewards. as for suggestions, one thing i have proposed before is changing the 105%/110% density ores to be higher (perhaps 140%/200%), putting very few of them in highsec, and more in dangerous space. mining in tama probably wouldn't ever become worthwhile, but mining in quiet low might be worth considering if you can get a moderate amount of 200% quality ore and a good deal of 140%. same caveat about supercapital proliferation applies here, of course.secondly missions. it's not just that risk/reward calculations favor highsec over lowsec, it's that the reward for efficient highsec mission blitzing (level 4s in semi-blinged marauders) are higher than the reward for efficient lowsec mission running (level 4s in tech 2 fitted hacs or cloak-capable t3s) even before you consider risk. level 5s have different issues payout wise as their payout is almost entirely in low to medium demand lps and the small number of people blitzing them hyperefficiently can crash those markets.third and related, incursions. even the addition of a bpc worth tens of billions to the drops, and 50% higher payout, doesn't make lowsec incursions *close* to as lucrative as highsec ones where you can just use blingfits and do the sites much faster. constellation control amplifies this - lowsec incursions generally have a higher degree of sansha control when sites are attempted.one suggestion i have is rebalancing mission payouts and incursions so that higher level highsec missions pay primarily in lp, but sites in more dangerous space pay both isk and lp. this way, the more people that run missions or incursions in highsec the lower the payout becomes, and it's a noticeable dropoff.another suggestion is expanding on the theme of burner missions, changing them so that a pvp fit is required (i.e. the mission target tries to warp off, this change would require rebalancing of the rat stats), making them involve a few more jumps, and making them more prevalent and more lucrative in lowsec. more people traversing gates in pvp fitted ships would revatilize low somewhat."
"you got my vote core ! keep up the good work.for the critics out there:the way corebloodbrothers writes and talks about eve and csm is straightforward and full of passion for the game.i've flown with him for quite some time now and although he is not the best of writers or a self promoter, he's genuinly caring for the game and the players. his way of typing and explainig shows that he wants to tell his opinion and views, not windowdress and parade.he could use a campaign manager for that, but on the other hand this is just the way he is: getting things done and work hard, instead of applauding minor accomplishments. convo him when you have questions, get on comms with him. watch the video's and reports on evenews24. he has great views on sov and nullsec. i vote for core not because he's just a great guy to fly with. i vote for core because he actually believes in something and is willing to work and stand up for those believes."
"my capstable interview is assessed in their weekly round-up show, starting from the 51 minute mark:"
"well, you cannot avoid everyone vs. everyone in a 1-man corp, you just make yourself a less attractive target, which works only so long you do not raise your head out of the melange. in any case: any concrete suggestions or ideas on how to enable a \"social, effective\" way to interact that gives people necessary tools to remove unnecessary risk? you may say that my billions in minerals, t2 mats, bp, ships, modules and assets in general to help others are just pixels, but it is pixels i have invested a huge amount of rl time and rl money into and therefore it is only logical not to expose that to theft, misuse, leeching, lazy players and so on. any concrete suggestions? whether ccp in the end heeds them or just pushes forward their own ideas is impervious to me; i am supposed to cast a vote for you."
"dear god. can i vote for you 14 times?"
"thanks for the support it is appreciated."
"why are you tolerating in evenews24 rasist comments? users posting under the name: \"russians are new ebola\", or crap like \"uneducated barbarians\". are you doing something to moderate this or prevent it?i hope this does not reflect your own opinions or the opinion of the owner of the site but you are responsible for the content of what is posted."
"we try to moderate the comment section as much as possible! however you have to understand that we can only do something about these posts, after they have been posted. i will check it right now to see which ones i can find and react accordingly.also i like to point out, they are not en24 made comments, they are people commenting on our site. the only thing that reflects our opinion is our posts (except those with disclaimers). we also focus on game related information. whatever happens in real life is out of interest and we will not comment on it at all"
"figured i would respond to a few worries:1. yes, i'm a ''media'' guy as people like to call me, but i manage a team of writers. nothing will change if i am lucky enough to become a csm member. i will still post battle reports, videos and everything else!2. if i for any reason have to go inactive for a long period, therefor not able to work correctly as a csm, i will step down.3. all the drama that happened in the past weeks ain't me, that's on their names. please don't see that drama as a connection to eve media guys running for csm. i do my own thing, which i will keep on doing #nomatterwhat4: nda doesn't mean you cant enter discussions, write articles, etc. it means that you cant talk about specific ccp ideas and their plans. pl has an ''nda'' too, and you don't see me break it while still discussing eve.5: i'm not trying to get ''eve on rails''. i want to give people more options. also not a good idea, is still an idea, which you need in order to get the right one.6: myself / en24 has never had any problems getting in contact with any ccp employee's and me being csm would not benefit in these contacts at all!last but not least, the number 1 rule on en24 is that everybody is free to write about whatever they want. we are a bunch of eve players who enjoy to find out what happens in our favorite game and like to write about that. the term: media sounds way to serious, en24 is a lot more chill zone."
"he is already space famous so, this is an invalid point.can you find anything better to say? maybe ask a question or something?"
"i like your down-to-earth-ness and lack of fear to try unconventional things. if your videos are any representation of what you'd bring to the csm you've got my vote."
"this is a severe handicap when it comes to making deliveries in low/nullsec."
"sorry, um, what are you campaigning on besides 'representing players'? all of us are campaigning on that, but most of us have some kind of focus we're specifically bringing to the table. do you have one?"
"i am campaigning on providing an unbiased player perspective with a focus on meaningful and quality gameplay. i do not believe bringing an armful of baggage in my specific wants and desires, but rather my knowledge and experience with both the game and process management (real life experience) in order to facilitate change based on the amazing amount of data already available from the payer base and the development teams defined vision, resources and capabilities.thanks for the question!in terms of focus, i have been playing for so long i don't believe it is about pigeon holing issues, but looking at the game holistically and ensuring that change doesn't bog down into overly narrowed focus on singular game play/style/type. so new player experience, high/low/null-sec life, pve, pvp, logistics, industry, sub-caps, caps, mechanics balance etc are all aspects of the game i have lived and both prospered and suffered with.i am also not married to any particular style or mechanics niche. i happen to live and play in null sec right now, so obviously sov is a big issue, but the game is much bigger than just that, and i am thus interested in the greater development of the game. more importantly, how do we get from where we are now, to where the devs have stated they want to take us. to be able to contribute to that conversation, it is important to not be solely focused on my current life in null sec, and not be blinded by not wanting to change how i play, or worry about my current assets losing value and allowing that to turn into patch work narrowly focused thinking that misses the overall point.i have already been through the logical \"don't tough my _____\" and \"eve is just about _____\" lifecycles of thinking. now i just want the game to meet its amazing potential, where the sandbox and emergent content through player interaction all play into making unique player driven experiences possible. making it possible for each player's individual goals to be met and where personalization/customization and a sense of ownership allows players to feel like the things they make and the actions they take are uniquely theirs, and matter in the bigger picture....so, really not too much i guess ;)"
"however, if i were biased , it would be in the following way...ccp has stated that they want the players to drive content.ccp has also stated that players should drive new eden and help shape our surroundingscurrently, things are pre-designed by ccp and handed to us.when we make things, they are not ours, atleast there is nothing unique about them, when we build something from scratch it is somehow the exact same as all others.new ideas continue to be slanted in the <U+FFFD>have it your way, as long as it is one of these limited choices<U+FFFD>.ships are all pre-slotted, pre-attributed, and pre-skill bonused so that our choice is usually just to do what some dev thought we should with very minor variations (and usually less efficient variants). one of the biggest misinterpretations of how this sandbox is presented, and how it plays out, is that the players invent (discover/innovate), produce blueprints (design/customize), manufacture and distribute assets in a player driven economy. where we are really just walking a very rigid pre-defined path to make the exact same stuff as the next guy. one would think, based on the terms used, that personal choices and uniqueness are intermingled all along the way to make a ship unique (and not just all at once in the very sterile <U+FFFD>fitting<U+FFFD> portion, where none of the aforementioned even matters). for all we know, if the trend continues into how the new player made jump gates are developed, we will just be autopiloting through a series of pre-designed and optimized choices with only one solution. think in terms of mixing the hacking mini-games with dotlan, where we are just clicking through choices, but really the path only goes to one place, and it just took time and luck, not skill or personal initiative, to get there. we won<U+FFFD>t really be shaping anything, just playing out a very slow and expensive mini-game.skin licenses are another great example. we will soon be free to customize our ships with a paint scheme, as long as it is one of these choices we already pre-designed for you, and oh by the way, you have a bunch of weird non-industry type hoops to jump through to get them, and they aren<U+FFFD>t even intrinsic to the ship in question, just another perishable hassle ridden post-production no marketable value add-on (think insurance).invention needs to be actual invention. exploration needs to be real discovery. manufacturing needs to allow for player customization and uniqueness so that both quality, efficiency and style are a value factor. pve needs to play into pvp (shooting npcs should be a primer to shooting players, with similar loadouts and training)....and the list goes on.this game has a long history, a ton of knowledgeable players, enormous potential (we all feel it after we have unsubbed for any given amount of time), a great narrative, and a surprisingly good mechanics structure (really terms and placeholders) for both world economics and player lifestyles. it is just a matter of having the will and fortitude to implement change that takes this game to the next level where self sustaining emergent game play becomes a reality. ccp has shown signs that this is now possible (it has looked really bleak in the past) with their new design philosophy and actual practice. they just need to get from here to there with player perspective input of all types.the reason i am running for the csm is to both represent the player base<U+FFFD>s current quality of life issues and help keep this big picture perspective in the forefront and ensure that questions are being asked along the change cycle that drive in these directions.quality of life, is where \"representing the player base\" comes in and where my priorities will be placed, whereas the remaining pipe-dreams mentioned are my underlying biases in terms of how greater future change can be implemented, and what it should build towards."
"it's actually been better personally. there is only one mineral that is hard to get out here, which when we need we usually head into high-sec to get it (mexillion). aside from that i have no real issues and i find it safer out here vs. being a high-sec miner. better ore as well. the only time our operation has really been effected is when our system was under heavy traffic by gorgon and they have attempted to take it over; but we readjusted our operations and now are back to being pretty steady.as as far as the extra high slot, it's to give more options - in this case of the extra high slot, it would make better sense to give it to the skiff and procurer since those two are meant to be able to tank and hold off pretty decently. the high slot vs. power grid, i think that the high slot would be beneficial because it can give you a better chance since a lot (if not most) are usually solo, and again, gives you that extra option for survivability, and not having to rely on having backup at all times. extra shield doesn't give you that. even if you have backup, that backup may not get to you in time, so having that extra option if you choose to go with a skiff or a procurer would be nice."
"hey, first sorry for the delay in responding. i wanted to think about how to go about this i also wanted to release my post about scouting first.i do not see myself as a wh candidate first and foremost. while i now live in one, i am far less experienced than corbexx for example (which is why he has my vote). i try to look at eve as a whole. so i do understand a lot of wormhole mechanics, and grievances. i also know a lot about corp management, which is a big sticker for wh dwellers as well.1) i have lived in a c1 for about a month and then moved into a c4 a few weeks ago. before that i would daytrip as part of exploration.2) i think that the mechanics around whs themselves are in a pretty good spot for the most part.(wh timers, system effects, sleepers, etc) the mechanics around living in one (corp management and poss) are a mess. fix those and you will see a lot of problem whers suffer from go away. i do know there is some stagnation in the meta on the higher levels, so shaking that up would be good. low level sleeper exploration sites are total garbage.3) i have a pretty comprehensive scouting reform that i would like to suggest, that would directly impact whers. also fixes to the minigames such as pi or hacking could improve common activities of wh dwellers. 4) i support putting things into whs, adding new ones to be discovered (without putting them in patch notes) and having continued mysteries where ccp puts in the clues, and we figure it out, and ccp incorporates our actions into the canonical lore. we are seeing that more now, but even more can be done.5) i wrote an article on my vision for poss, linked in my original post.6) corporate management is a total mess. thankfully reform is well underway. i suspect that by the time i took on a role as csm, they would be pretty well wrapped up with this. all that said i thing fundamentally the idea of roles isn't totally broken, but simply isn't clear. and there should be a ui to test your protections.for example you can test: as a *role* i can *action* to check to ensure all levels are controlled. also default roles, etc etc. there is a lot of little things that can be done, and i am very happy that ccp punkturis is working on it!"
"i'll leave this here for you to use if you want to."
"thoric is great guy you will find him open and honest. he been a good friend in eve and great leader of our group null sec(indy, moons, pve, pvp, sov holding, and cat herding). so from the null sec side he been there and done that. he does what he says and you can count on him. thats why i voteing for him."
"what do you think should be done about the new player experience to help with player retention? you mentioned not wanting new players to grind for plex to sub their accounts, but you didn't say much else about the npe."
"i think that players should use the trial to actually try the game. the metagaming is so hard that we aren't likely going to let trials in in most corps or alliances, sadly. but this said, the tutorials or something else should have a way to showcase the game better to the newbros.eve is a dynamic place, it is not only killing the same rat a million times before you are done, it is not only about rocks. many newbros are fooled into thinking that missions and mining are the best thing to earn money as a newbro, and they stick with that until they give up because grinding 800m as a newbro is hard.but there is a lot of stuff just to try out there. why aren't we showing them? exploration, wormholes, ninja-gas mining, even getting eyes over one of those huge fights that come up into the social media, whatever. eve is a real living thing, made up by players, it breathes and it is amazing, but we have to show them how amazing it can be without having to wait weeks or months or forever until they suddenly make into a corp that does that kind of stuff.eve is a game about meaningful decisions but you can't decide without knowledge and without anything to compare. take a newbro into nullsec. have him die to a gatecamp. give him another ship and teach them to be careful. show them to use dscan and stuff to venture into the deep space without being completely alone or relying into having luck.new player experience is showing them why we love this game despite all the huge wall that the learning curve is. we don't need a flat learning curve either, but many things can be improved the first two weeks of a character that can dramatically change the decision to subscribe or to leave forever because \"lol grinding internet spreadsheets online\" etc."
"this candidate is legit, two fisted standup guy. his website & podcast after tmc is the goto resource for ear-to-the-ground journalism. you have my vote, a return player who followed the meta in the form of crossing zebras."
"you keep referring to barleguet, for those of us who are new, what exactly does this refer to?"
"barleguet is the only named system in placid.wait...okay, so barleguet is actually a system in placid, that outside of historical context, is rather unremarkable. it is non-fw lowsec, off the beaten, crowded path, with a few l5 agents. it is usually quite empty and devoid of content, as most non-fw lowsec tends to be. many moons ago, when brave was just forming under the auspice of maximizing fun per hour, they made this system home. in the course of a few weeks, local went from hovering at 3-4 to being a stable 130-250 or more, at all hours of the day. their home station became as well stocked as any secondary hub, full of new opportunities for competitive trading. no matter the time, or how big or small your gang was, you could rush to barleguet and find fun, and even reship on demand. silly fun was never in short supply, repeated welping of cheap ships trained many newbies into hardened pilots. planet seven's belts were perhaps one of the better places to get good with dscan, and find threats or targets. people camped, roamed, dropped, and otherwise had fun based a simple concentration of people. however, brave outgrew barleguet, and headed for sov-null. that may be natural ecological progression, but it was a very sad day indeed for placid and syndicate - where else could one go for instant content?a premise of my campaign is that, against all odds, a group of moderate size was able to live in poor, unremarkable space, and in doing so, that space came alive. if low sec and npc null was made even slightly more competitive for newer players with bottom up resources accessible to non veteran players, we could see people doing far more interesting things. currently, far too many people get trapped in hi sec, waiting for sp or isk to accumulate enough before venturing out. it shouldn't be that way. risk and reward should be in synch."
"not empty quoting? not empty quoting. your impression is correct, the shorter development cycles usually reduce the lead time the csm has. as far as i know, no, none of that time is specifically blocked out for the csm and certainly not two weeks worth. the csm has stakeholder status on one team and do sprint reviews with them. right now, the provisions are mostly provisional. the csm has been added to confluence, which may help us keep better. time will tell how it works out in practice, but thus far i am optimistic. roadmap accessibility is something i'm keeping a close eye on, it's likely to be key to keeping the csm looped in and able to engage in a meaningful way in the new release environment. the csm isn't really part of the development process at all, nor do we have a formal placement within the development process or structure.the business specifics i can't engage with however, for answers there it is probably best to target your questions to ccp. all i can say is that ccp's structure and how ccp seagull runs it makes a lot of sense."
"thank you for the clarification. stakeholder status was another unclear term in my mind, and i wondered how it related to ownership in the sense of scrum. player stories are one thing i thought the csm would be perfect for. i don't mean to say devs are at fault for not being subject matter experts. in your cap stable interview, you addressed the matter of in-depth knowledge, and mentioned that individual players outside of the csm are likely to have the most experience in specific areas of the game. still, wouldn't the csm be ideal for providing player stories, for being bound to an nda while very close to individual players?in your latest blog post on tmc, you closed on the topic of csm integration into the development process. access to the road map is great, but wouldn't it be better to have access to backlog items and player stories? player stories strike me as a mutually compatible piece of data between the csm and scrum. going forward into csm x, this topic of csm integration (which you mention consistently) strikes me as very important to the function of the csm, and communication between players and ccp. being an invested player, my hopefulness and faith in eve depends on this communication process. i suppose this isn't much of a question, and i mostly just want to say you are addressing the csm on a level that is reassuring and i enjoy hearing about. questioning the process of the csm with a mind for reform."
"hello sion,do you still log in to the game and fly spaceships etc?"
"any suggestions with jump fatigue?"
"reduce the fatigue bonus on industrials and black ops."
"let me address your 3 main points. however, on a quick side note, i agree that social interaction is a nice function of eve but not all players require or want such but still want to participate in parts of the game that normally require it. this is a social argument that ccp will need to address separately if this is a legitimate concern to them, i will not address any of your points with the premise that social interaction is required, because it simply isn't. (as much i do like and prefer it, some do not.) slaves are a lot easier to manage than corp mates.all three of your points argue automation, let<U+FFFD>s separate this out into 2 more solid arguments. automation within eve client and automation outside of eve client. this debate can go on and on until ccp issues a static statement saying what is and isn<U+FFFD>t in their mind automation (part of the current multi-boxer concerns). so, they have declared that input broadcasting is considered against their policies. you use the term automation like these programs are inputting commands for us. while that is correct in the case of input duplication, that is not necessarily the case of the status quo since the eula update. currently, you are required to enter a click or keystroke for each and every command to a client. i need to release a video explaining this to people to show them how it works currently and that may settle some opinions.so currently, the way i multi-box is i have isboxer, same can be accomplished in multiple other program i simply prefer the interface isboxer provides. i use isboxer to arrange my windows so i can click on parts of each client in rapid order instead of alt tabbing. this is how the majority of multi-boxers currently using isboxer utilize it legally to assist in our interaction with the eve client. this setup takes hours and sometimes days to put into place and does not even then remove any of the <U+FFFD>training<U+FFFD> required to become proficient and effective. this does decrease our margin for error, which is the point of the program and setup. it does not however, make us better than any other player by default. that is on a personal pilot training level and not mitigated a program. mistakes happen and happen a lot. that majority of the community sees only the <U+FFFD>harmful<U+FFFD> effects or the perfect pilot that lays waste to a poorly fc<U+FFFD>d fleet or a fleet that has been trapped expertly by the multi-boxers allies. it is silly and downright stupid to blame the multi-boxer for being better than his 7 counterparts in a single player per client only bombing fleet. as far as automation goes, the limit of our automating capabilities go, round-robin is the only pseudo automated form of multiboxing that people have considered and it isn<U+FFFD>t really that effective thus far. finally, you like to combine automated multi-boxing into one phrase, that is botting and bannable by the eula and not something multi-boxers are concerned about. nothing is automated in multi-boxing using isboxer and it hasn<U+FFFD>t been. it requires user interaction for everything. i will also argue or more likely point out that wow (largest/most successful mmo to date) and others such as eq2 and rift allow multi-boxing and even allow input duplication with no game destroying side-effects. multi-boxing isn<U+FFFD>t automated, it doesn<U+FFFD>t destroy popular games, and it does require a significant time investment to get good at.check out my podcast! my blog!"
"i have quite a few stances on my blog and in my original post for csm. - small gravity capacitor upgrade changes- ice changes for ventures (still need to blog about this one)- npe for wh'smulti-boxing specific:- better pr for multi-boxers- better eula definition and enforcement- provide a ccp - multi-boxer conduit for discussion"
"^basically this.i can't support anyone who thinks large scale multi boxing with 3rd party software is ok.there's a really big difference between manually running a few accounts at the same time to increase pve efficiency or scout ahead of a pvp group ect and running dozens of accounts with paid for 3rd party software in order to gain an insurmountable advantage in pvp and/or pve. stuck in here with me:"
"actually i am trying to separate them, but iphone typing isn't that great. what i was trying to do is separate out what end of multiboxing you want. i suppose i'll try this.multiple accountsmultiple accounts while using a 3rd party program to monitor themmultiple accounts while using a 3rd party program to send commands to every account at once by pressing one button.multiple accounts while using a 3rd party program to make decisions for you, so you are afk making a pizza (botting).well remove botting in total because no one wants that, yourself included. a monitoring program nobody is arguing about (such as replicating your desktop so you can see what's going on on another account). heck i tool around with eve previewer myself because i have two accounts, one monitor. i can't input commands into that other account without first clicking it, bringing it to the front, and interacting with it, which causes me to lose control of my primary account (it's no longer in focus). i treat that program as a poor mans second monitor. you use isboxer in that role too. nobody has a problem with that.it's when you, the one person, can control and interact with every account simultaneously, give commands to everything at once, and can both execute and perform jobs which would take a group of people to do (sometimes multiple groups), but you do it solo. we're not talking about you magically switching between 50 accounts pressing f1 each time with such speed you melt your keyboard. i'm not talking about out-shipping content (battle cruisers in level 1 missions). i'm talking about having your own army to perform group functions as if they were solo content, and using programs to control the entire thing. full nightmare fleets in incursions controlled by one guy, full bombing wings controlled by one guy, full ishtar gangs run by one person, full mining enclaves run by a single person (those aren't that hard to run though). you remove the need for people, actual breathing people from the game when you, the solo person, can replace them in total.we currently have this exact mechanic as a part of the game, it's called drone assist. ccp decided to nerf it down because the community complained. people are still advocating for drone assist to be removed entirely. the difference here is that with drone assist, the person, each individual, can still screw up. the fc could get headshot, then it's confusion until number two takes over. hot mics', arguments, decision making, target calling, the need to type a message, copy paste a dscan report, check if the people are actually flying doctrine fits, or happen to fit some billion isk loot pi<U+FFFD>ata, jump commands, escalations, friendships, asking for help, the joy of playing.. dies. eve is anti social to a lot of people. if you want to do group content that is otherwise impossible without using that program or others like it, then it should stay impossible. now do i care if you want to solo or not, no. i care when you want to remove the content meant for groups by doing it all yourself. when the program replaces the rest of the group, you kill the point of grouping. honestly, i hate playing against isboxers because our group activity vs group activity turns into our group against one guy and his army of accounts. it wasn't a fun group interaction, it wasn't pvp, it was our group trying to break down the wall 1 guy made with his 100 accounts. maybe i am just old fashion. but to even ask if you can use an inputting program in this game... i am just a bit of an ideologue, who thinks good fights with like minded people is better than good fights with an atomitom. it's been said 100 times before, and it will continue to be talked about in the near future. with all of that said, as you are representing the wormhole group, i do look forward to the townhall."
"im not really sure what you mean here but are you actually saying that there should be more home site content in whs? because if you are, that the complete opposite of what the actual issue is.the vast majority of high end wh corps run pretty much all their pve in their home system, farming sites with capitals.this leads to low content all around since it is extremely safe for them to do.if anything, corps should be encouraged to venture out of their home system to run site, not the other way around.this was done alreadywhat are you basing this on? most of wspace is very empty and it is easy to find even empty hs static c2s, which historically were always full.it take very little effort to find an empty wh of any class for a new corp to move into.more ore sites is not the solution here. ore is freely available in wspace because no one mines it.a big part of this is the move of ore sites from sigs to anoms which is something i firmly believe was a mistake and should be reverted. stuck in here with me:"
"aiwha wrote:wormholes more newbies! wh space is desolate. (its not dead, but its very empty) i want to promote more ways for newbies to see both the riches and danger of wh space, and become a new generation of crazy mad max capsuleers. more movement! originally, ccp designed wh space as a place for us to temporarily inhabit before returning to known space. the forefathers said **** that and pioneered the modern wh lifestyle, and ccp thought that was cool as **** and let them stay. i would like to see more options for expeditionary style gameplay in wh's as well as the current lifestyle. (more people moving around means more chances for pew too) aiwha,nice to see wormholes mentioned in any campaign, however could you elaborate on these two points more?1. \"how\" would you promote bringing in new players? if your idea is to make wormholes easier, than you'll receive an \"absolutely no\" by many wormhole players. wormholes aren't supposed to be npe, and by npe i specifically mean that for brand new players to the game. if your idea is to just improve influx into wormholes, than i'm all for it and just hope your vision just doesn't mean to make it easier to make it more appealing. honestly, the difficult pioneer lifestyle was what makes/made many wormholers so committed and proud in the early days. when we inhabited an area of the game ccp told us we couldn't inhabit in 2009/10, we had the opportunity to actually play in a frontier. over the course of the past years, scanning has been made easier, third party services for wormholes have become a thing, wormhole politics have organized, pos/corp mechanics are changing, and players have created a ton of guides, blogs, and videos to help players in wormholes.that said, wormholes have become much easier over the years since their inception, and i'd be hard pressed to support any agenda that made the wormhole gameplay easier. the pioneer frontier of wormholes was what made them great, and for those that were in wormholes in '09, that is already lost. hopefully, though, for newer players to the community, they can still get a sense of what we felt in the early days, even if they have far more guidance and help available to them.2. could you explain \"more movement\" better, with any examples you'd envision? when we inhabited wormholes, we were told by ccp greyscale later on that noone was intended to live there... at all. but, as jeff goldblum famously said life finds a way. in wormholes, their have been a number of movement options, from players who base in high/low/nullsec and journey into wormholes for content (known as \"daytrippers\"), players that live out of an orca or just basically backpack through wormholes (the ones that refer to themselves as the \"true nomads\"), groups of players that backpack and bring simple pos's to set up \"camps\" in various wormholes (the \"nomad groups\"), groups and players who establish themselves in wormhole systems and set up a pos or pos's for \"permanent\" residence in a wormhole (general wormhole groups), and then there are groups that establish fully operational deathstar pos's, install pos sticks on every moon, and fill their hole with caps/players to the max with as best coverage as possible (known as \"fortress groups\").from what it sounds like, you want to improve on the earlier options to increase more nomadic and day tripping movement, if i understand correctly? if this is the case, how would you pitch your proposal to the players, csm, and ccp given the opportunity?"
"i agree that most of these need addressing, though id like to hear more on how you specifically would approve as far as the changes gothough again i say it, mining caters to a playstyle/limitation some players have, if you dont like how passive it is, then do missioning, minigames should never be the answer, especially when your going to be required to do it endlessly for hours straight (thats where most \"redo mining\" ideas fall apart, even if you find a candy-crush [not even that fun] killer, once someone is forced to do it endlessly for a couple hours, its not fun anymore).besides, if we lose mining as a passive income source, am i just supposed to stop playing while doing paperwork or actually being at work/school? (which recently has started taking up any hours im not asleep)besides, mining is already dangerous enough with gankers, i dont need my attention split even further trying to watch local or dscan while navigating some horrible minigame (why i left exploring after the changes)"
"proclus diadochu wrote:aiwha wrote:wormholes more newbies! wh space is desolate. (its not dead, but its very empty) i want to promote more ways for newbies to see both the riches and danger of wh space, and become a new generation of crazy mad max capsuleers. more movement! originally, ccp designed wh space as a place for us to temporarily inhabit before returning to known space. the forefathers said **** that and pioneered the modern wh lifestyle, and ccp thought that was cool as **** and let them stay. i would like to see more options for expeditionary style gameplay in wh's as well as the current lifestyle. (more people moving around means more chances for pew too) aiwha,nice to see wormholes mentioned in any campaign, however could you elaborate on these two points more?gladly. i have no intentions on suggesting any nerfs to the difficulty of wh life or gameplay. on the contrary, i feel that c1's and c2's provide an excellent start to the difficulty curve in requiring little investment to make quite a bit of isk (at least for a new player). however, i don't feel that new players are quite informed enough about the riches and perils that await in wh space. as such, one concept i've been kicking around in my head is the introduction of an advanced career agent specifically to introduce new players to wh space and give them a little taste of the daytripping lifestyle. perhaps even sending the player on several trips into an instanced \"wh\" on several missions to allow them to learn to identify sites, hone their scanning, and dangers they may encounter in the real thing. beyond that, as i said before, lower class wh space is already balanced enough in my opinion for rookie pilots to get their feet wet. i just want to see a better basic education available so that they know that the wh life exists.now, as for new content for old hands. i believe that the introduction of expeditions (a la nullsec pve expeditions) would add another layer of incredibly risky money making to wh space while also encouraging some more nomadic playstyle. unlike nullsec however, simply requiring you to \"run x in 24 hours\" would be too easy. i would like to see expeditions that take place over say the course of a week or more, periodically unlocking so that you can't just roll into a hole and run it before bugging out. running an expedition would require a dedicated group to set up shop in a random wh for a decent period of time. let me try to run a hypothetical timeline.say your corp is doing some pve and in their pve, get a \"wh expedition\" journal entry. as a group, you decide to go for it. first, its not in your home system, you only have a j-sig to go off of, so you spend several days rolling holes until you find your target. next up, you'd need to move a tower, and supplies into said hole since"
"i know where you're coming from. while i find industry work pretty boring, just being alert for that suspicious t1 frigate tailing you is something that requires being \"at the keyboard\". however, i have a vision for industry that encapsulates what we have now, while also providing rewards for actually being at the keyboard, doing things. how does this sound? we would leave the current, very simple option for doing industry work as it is, but introduce minigames as an enhancement to industry, rather than a replacement. that is to say, you mine x amount of ore whilst doing your taxes now, you still mine x amount of ore post patch, but you have the option to complete a small mini-game during your cycle that gives a small boost to the yield of said cycle. this would simply expand your options, without eliminating or limiting any play-styles that you currently have too badly. (of course this would have some implications for the mineral market, and i feel that's something best explored with ccp) this also could apply to invention/research/copying for blueprints. you can leave them in and cook at default speed, or spend some time playing minigames in order to shave off a few days here or there. i feel that adding options like these would only serve to increase the possibilities and playstyles of eve.i'd like to take a moment here to say that i am a great supporter of the \"manufactured by x\" addition to all player made items. everyone should be able to sign their work."
"right, but i, and a good chunk of eve, are vehemtly against eve becoming a game of qtes, minigames just become a chore the third or fourth time you do them, because they never change, theres no way to actually make them enjoyable, and the worse part, its already proven bots can do most better than humans, so this would just encourage people to use botting programs because any edge is non-negotiable, especially in close-margin business like research and mineralsso people would either burn themselves out of eve in short order trying to force themselves to do the same minigame for the 500th time that day, they just stop doing that activity entirely (which for many would be the only thing they do in eve besides chat with friends, so likely theyd just mvoe to another game and keep using the old teamspeak channel), or worse yet, just start using bots so they can keep their edge without killing themselvesall considered, i have trouble seeing any positive benefit to adding minigames, besides making a previously simple activity mroe complex and time consuming for the sake of \"anything that keeps them from leaving the keyboard for 5 seconds\"as for the \"manufactured by x\", its technically impossible, the database handles objects in a simplistic manner, all of item x are identical, the second they are packaged they become a single dataline, changing this would mean you would have to have multiple data entires for every item in the game to account for every possible state that single item could be in, rather than a small list of possible states that general item type could be"
"you do have a point. however, i'd point out that in other facets of pve, eve players already have similar options available to them. take ratting for instance: some people semi-afk or even completely afk drone boats to mindlessly grind isk with minimal interaction, while others spend hours meticulously cutting every corner possible to speed clear sanctums and maximize their incomes. whereas in industry, you have one option, click button; take nap. i want to see industry expanded so that those who are willing to put in that extra effort can reap additional rewards in ways besides running 12 semi-afk clients. i understand that you find changes like these distasteful, but i promise that i will keep your opinions in mind when discussing possible industry changes or additions on the csm itself. i will also do my best to give feedback to the community (within the limits of the nda) on any changes that may have an impact on your current play-styles so that i can be an accurate reflection of the wants and needs of the community. as for eve's code, i know its bad, but you've gotta have pies in the sky to shoot for when ccp finally defuses the pos code from the bank of england or whatever its holding hostage, even if they're small ones."
"theres a difference between missions and industry though.in missions, it doesnt matter how fast you kill those red crosses, each enemy is worth the same amount and always will be, whether you one shot them, ignore them, or semi-afk fight themin industry, anything that improves or gives you any edge is mandatory, flat out, its why alot of people discourage noobs from industry, since in most cases to see profit you have to have skills at all v. this is because values in the industry proffession, as opposed to the missioning profession, are dynamic. if i can make a product faster, or cheaper, than somebody else, then their entire attempt is near pointless, as i and every one else who can do that will do that and keep the margins 0.01 iskd just enough that anybody who doesnt do it cant make profit over base cost.as for mining bonuses, the more ore you mine, the less its worth, youll see the active miners make about as much now as inactives before, if not even less, and the afk miners will just be making a token amount of isk that really doesnt amount to anything tangible (and again here, your proposing mechanics that for alot of people will limit the amount of isk they can make an hour, in a proffession that already makes some of the lowest isk/hour in the game)i get you just want to see improvements, but when it comes to things like mining/industry, any change that gives one group a bonus over another, only invalidates the group that doesnt have the bonus, because market values are not consistent and unchanging like missions, in markets you can either sell something cheap enough that it actually moves, or you cant, and depending on whether or not you had those bonuses, youll either make money or realize you may as well give up."
"i just do not feel that handicapping everyone to the same form of industry is a fair choice. i do agree with you on your point about the current state of mining, if you don't have 100% of the bonuses, you do not compete. as i said before, i've been there, manufacturing is a razor thin line to walk and it was difficult to make isk. however, market pvp (and all industrial roads lead to market pvp) is as much a part of eve as any nullsec brawl or wh furball, and industrialists deserve to have more options than \"train every skill to v then n+1 accounts\". that's why i feel adding the ability to use actual gameplay to increase your ability to compete in eve's harsh markets will foster more budding industrialists than it harms."
"i support this product and/or service.+1 stuck in here with me:"
"we don't need a kickstarter. we need ccp to stop putting money into non-existent and failed products (legion, dust514, world of darkness), and stop trying to grab headlines with a vr game with a very limited audience (not many people have headsets)."
"so if i read this correctly, the way to do rmt in the future will be buy aurum -> trade for plex -> sell plex on market, just like every other nex item?i'm also wondering how gifting aurum to people would be any different to contracting them a plex with no fee. well, apart from the free aurum a bunch of us received as part of various celebrations."
"wtf?people aren't using titles as access control groups? isn't that the whole point of titles, being to give personnel officers tools to better manage roles?wow. i can now understand why some people think roles are truly broken. i just want finer grained roles such as title a means people can access the pos labs at pos x, while title b means those people can put fuel in all poses but not take fuel, and certainly not unanchor stuff, while title c means those people have full control over all pos functionality include (un)anchoring.so, new customer education program required, and i guess the ability to toggle the public visibility of titles?"
"(emphasis mine)oh yes please!also, it would be nice if pilots could create their own wallet divisions. it would also be nice if pos usage fees could be paid from personal wallets."
"and using words other than \"society\" mean you lose the import of prepending \"secret\" :)"
"it wouldn't. in principle, it never really was, since aur store goodies could be traded for isk, and they could be traded for plex.but yes, in future, the relationship will be more direct. that's why you're exceedingly unlikely to see any more such gifts in any meaningful quantity, or at least unless and until ccp are really desperate.the aurum mountain left over from the incarna era has been a stumbling block in the way of nex/nes/whatever it's bloody called now reform for years. the mct cert was a very clever, revenue-neutral (or perhaps even revenue positive) way of clearing that mountain out. now that it's gone, the way is clear for ccp to deploy aur products & services in a more rational way. as long as they steer well clear of anything that has direct in-game effects, i'm fine with that, and so should you be too."
"does anyone know why withdraw from the csm x elections ?source:"
"there doesn't seem much point in speculating, since there's little we can do about it in any case.marlona hinted at rl harrassment occuring against him & family members. what the truth of that is, it's hard to say. he did tread on some sensitive toes, and there are some idiots out there who might think it amusing or profitable to do somehing like that, but he was also something of a dramatist as well."
"that was claimed months ago, well before he decided to run. in october, if i recall correctly.he simply couldn't deal with the inevitable criticism he drew. as for the aftermath, to my knowledge he biomassed and gave away all his assets to a new player donation program."
"just found it weird that such a dedicated character would leave like that, it has to be something spontaneous.for the speculation side of it, i hope it is not oog player harassment, if so ccp should be notified imho.who ever he made enemies with in game, it is all about content creation and therefor he will be missed."
"if a(ny) csm townhall is ever done again my first question will be:how will ccpgames see the csm if you compare eve online with visiing starbucks,( source:"
"(to preserve it.)"
"from over here."
"from over here."
"dear capsulers of highsec,here i found a nice summary of what tora bushido stands for"
"the post of mark eting is right.and yes give me more wardecks. and so i say tora not for csm."
"havent read it all yet, but it looks like great tears. i approve !"
"no tears.only your right face. you and alex meyer.and last but not least i dont pay 10.000.000.000,00 isk and i dont rejoin gs-e"
"nvm question answered earlier.what is your stance on the phoebe jump drive changes? do you agree with it, disagree with it. would you want to keep it or roll it back and remove it?"
"tora, i have a question:i see that you have plenty of excellent ideas for changes to be made. but how would you take control of your seat on the csm to make these changes? what are your plans for making your vision become a reality? how do you intend to have an influence on the csm?p.s.: did you write that passage linked above about you being a blackmailer? come on now, be honest."
"its always hard to get your own ideas on the agenda. best way to do so, is trying to convince the csm /ccp one by one and let them see why some of the ideas should be added to eve. but in the end its still ccp's decision. i might be all grrr...war dec everything in game and enjoy being a 'evil guy', but the csm is hard serious work. if i make it to be a csm, they'll see a way more serious side of me.that link above is about 50% true and 50% bull ships. not something i feel like responding to here. move it to c&p and i might if i have the time."
"that's it, you're going on my list, tora!"
"this guy is the man. i will vote for him for sure!....corbi have my babies...."
"mike really again? supporting you again if you are not tired of it. burn the land and boil the sea you can't take the sky from me"
"easy because there are many many more qualified than him.commercial bla snipped.commercials do not change the fact, that he is not qualified.noooo, it is just not risk averse enough!!at least you admit that it *is* risk-averse. not complety but --> mostly.so only a complete numbnut has risks!(do codies ever realise what stuff they write?)"
"i don't see any. in fact i see a pretty poor crop of candidates overall, to the point where i expect at least 4 incumbents to be retained, probably more like 5 or 6 or even higher.sabriz stands out rather well."
"most or all of the incumbents seeking re-election for csm x are easily worth voting for."
"someone asked me last night, what if you woudl dream a change, somethign that fits your voters, i woudl say upgradable systems in a big and meanignfull way.dream: \" owning sov gives u credits which can be used to upgrade your space, over the years of owning it you have yo make decide what matters first and most as holder. as you get to convert your activity into upgrading ore types, amount of belts, number of anomalies, me rate, refining bonus, station or gate guns in your null, more pos anchor locations, pi balance, upgrade for a jb, jc cycle time, fatique bonus, all sorts of stuff, u can make a long list of desired things.those things, are stakable, over time u can make awsome system, maybe keep high end moons out of there, as they are conflict drivers in themsleves, which is good. for years u invest in your systems, whilst you grow your community can grow as your space becomes more self sufficient, and can hold more, and different people. this doenst necesarrily mean more isk/h but a feeling of achievement where investing pays off.i woudl die for my space now:)"
"greetings core,hope you are well. i would like to ask how you would like to see supercaps rebalanced or given new roles to play? or even removed altogether?was a privilege flying with you. good luck with the campaign."
"hehe, i live in provi, any dead super and titan is a good one, as long as its not mine ;) but its also a item peopel trained and worked hard for. with fatique they already in a better place now, but its no secret i am a big fan of subcap fights ratehr then gettign dropped with 30 supers ruining any chance of a goof subcap fight.this is more a question though for goon/n3 , titans as mobile destructable stations.. supers too delievr power too player owned stargates, haha i dunno, just thinking out loud, dying titans make great news though and atract people to eve, thats the upside of them, we shoudl not forget that either"
"my play for the pl/habit vote"
"both originals are better but with a literal half a billion views i suspect that most habit members will have that nagging feeling that they have seen \"shake it off\" somewhere before."
"hi manny,have you any ideas/opinions on how supercaps can stop being the cancer of eve?"
"i'm all for carriers and dreadnaughts in hi-sec, cry havoc and let slip the dogs of war"
"since they changed the gates to allow capitals to jump through them, i'm honestly surprised no one has found a way to do this."
"i endorse this product from bobman. the rumours of isk transfers are highly speculative lol. in all seriousness i cannot think of anyone else that i would rather use my toons vote for , now if he was only in a half decent alliance then maybe if i had two votes he would get em both lol j/k. vote bobman for csm10ljbceo dion \"dion one of the oldest corps in the game\"."
"bob gets my +1 i've worked with him a lot at en24, and i'm tempted now to edit his speach as well as his articles, and flying with him in ncdot i know he's a good guy. plus he even visited me in hospital at fanfest and offered me grapes! that's what true eve bros should all be like."
"don't remind me of that hospital experience! not going to lie. i was pretty nervous to see how you were doing,"
"+1 for chance. brought old vets back and is creating a lot of content.i'd rather trust that chance will bring some new blood to the csm then voting on you, tora. justmy2cents"
"just a note everyone, i've updated my campaign post with some links, including a link to my recent interview with capstable which includes a lot more detail about my thoughts, goals, and ideas.if you have a chance, check it out!"
"chance:just wanted to mention that i think you hit it out of the park during your cap stable interview. the interview is what garnered my vote. i thought it was the best done of the last several. your energy is undeniable, yet you present yourself quite well. i look very forward to seeing what you might be able to do.thanks!-- alan mathison, explorer & industrialist, star tide industries"
"hey khador,i like your approach and as i already had the pleasure meeting you in rvb i think you will be an excellent candidate for csm x.eve's future in terms of what ccp is planning for is quite interesting for me. especially that ccp wants to widen the sandbox aspect, allowing players to destroy or build even stargates and stations and/or getting rid of concord as a space police (the later is a speculation by myself).what would be your approach to achieve a \"new\" eve experience granting players even more control and power on the one hand but still keeping the game accessible and not too cruel to new players under this aspect?i am not asking for details or specific features but more like what's you position here regards,legedric"
"i have known harry for several years in game and will gladly stand by him and endorse him for csm x."
"+1, got my vote here!"
"yes! thank you for that!"
"no prob and good luck, you have my votes"
"i have few unusually direct questions for you being as you and your alliance was one of those impacted by this change..was the phoebe jump changes a mistake? would you fight to revert them? (would you get rid of the 5 ly jump change? jump bridge fatigue, etc)do you believe there should be no jump fatigue timer at all?one final question... it's pretty well known that the phoebe jump changes killed the botlord treaty.do you believe botlord was a good thing, and would you fight to reinstate such agreements if the phoebe changes were reverted? in other words, would you agree to return everything to the way it was before phoebe?"
"i will continue to bump and endorse frosthammer for csm x just as i do harry saq."
"thanks for the questions phoenix. 1) the idea of neutering force projection was necessary, and i support it for the health of eve. the way it has been implemented with jump fatigue i find to be singularly annoying and punitive. i would argue that the 5ly jump limit needs to be extended slightly because it prevents people from easily moving even within regions. jump bridge fatigue is excessive and punitive given the cost and effort involved in holding the sov in the first place and installing the bridges. the timers are aggravating because they can reduce ability to coordinate in fleets because of previously acquired fatigue. i think there's a way of implementing a force projection limitation that doesn't involve this excessively complex and annoying mechanic. 2) there are many treaties and agreements in place that aren't as well known as b0tlord. many of them remain in force, and others are negotiated all the time. politics is a thing in eve. as an alliance leader, i will support whatever, at a diplomacy level, secures the interests of my alliance. at a different level, i want to say that your premise is slightly off. b0tlord didn't die because of phoebe, at least not directly. it died because pl gave up its sov. that happened because of phoebe. but if pl had sov today, i would bet you dollars to doughnuts that it would still be in force. i'll go back to expand on my original candidate statement, and say that you can't \"fix\" eve by telling people not to play the game to win, or to do things that aren't in their own interest to make your life easier. human nature says that won't happen. what is needed are changes to the ruleset that penalize risk averse behavior. if signing something like b0tlord kept you from acquiring resources that your alliance or coalition needed to have, or which put you in a substantially better position, you wouldn't sign it. but since the resources don't change, and so once acquired, tend to stay acquired by the same entity, inertia sets in and those agreements make a lot of sense if your goal is to minimize risk to your own resources."
"i have removed a rule breaking post.the rules:5. trolling is prohibited. trolling is a defined as a post that is deliberately designed for the purpose of angering and insulting other players in an attempt to incite retaliation or an emotional response. posts of this nature are disruptive, often abusive and do not contribute to the sense of community that ccp promote.isd ezwal community communication liaisons (ccls)"
"around the 32 minute mark onwards, falcon is going on about how it is horse-sh-- that null alliances have the greatest influece and further down-plays this, by stating that only four members are null and the rest come from other interest like miners and mission runners."
"not sure why you had to mail me the answer and couldn't just reply to me on the thread, its a pretty straight forward reply by you."
"i didn't want to **** my thread up with a oneliner. i talked more about this in my cap stable interview that will be released soon i hope. there is also the problem of me not feeling like i have actually been on the csm to write a review. coming in late into a close knit group saying hi was pretty hard. goatsephobia: thanks m8 i deny all accusations of shitposting in the swe channel.sion kumitomo wrote some nice words about me:"
"do think rookieships should be player built because ships should not spawn out of thin air,and handing out free ships is a form of capsuleer wellfare ?"
"i don't really consider free noobships a big problem. i wish there was a button to trash all mine though because they clutter up my assets window :). i don't have a problem with ccp handing out special skins for certain ships like that scorpion but they need to be super transparant about it. im sure there will be some jelousy but i think that good stuff for the community and the game should be rewarded. the new ship skin system will make it less of a ships spawning out of thin air thing btw."
"you got my vote for supporting small gang / solo pvp, plus your employment history speaks for it self.last monday we had a noobship ffa with a dozen capsuleers and 2 eve radio dj's as moderators, someone won a plex that day source:"
"stakeholder status is unclear in my mind too. it isn't a stakeholdership in the scrum sense. access to player stories and being able to provide feedback there is a good idea, but nothing like that currently exists. i concur, communication between players and ccp is of paramount importance. still a lot of work to be done there. when i have time, which is rarer than i would like."
"good tmc article. you have my vote."
"dear sion,since you currently are on the csm and have expressed thoughts about legislating the process and the rules by which we play a sandbox game, i want to forward this idea.now that must likely the csm white paper is being rewritten, would it not be a good idea to put in some (abridged) right of interpellation source:"
"how would you communicate your csm term to your voters if elected?burn the land and boil the sea you can't take the sky from me"
"do you live in a black hole? if not why are you so eager to advocate for changes to someone elses home? i live in a black hole and am very happy with the weather as it is."
"actually no i don't live in one. i have heard some feedback on them and it seem's they still need a tweak. however i would like to here from you on how you see them."
"well by talking to them.seriously in game wise i hang out in the wormhole channel, the help channel etc. you can always send me a mail or convo me. out of game i'm on twitter, slackfleet and irc."
"the blackhole favors missiles as they experience a greater range and due to the explosion velocity bonus the damage application keeps up with the faster ships. ships move faster and webs are less effective which favor mobility. the longer targeting range fits in nicely with both the faster movement and the longer range of missiles. that movement requires the pilot to think ahead a bit more as agility is challenged and speeds are higher. turrets and drones both experience tracking issues as relative motion is often greater. yes capital escalations are a bit more difficult but there is far more to life than the use of dreadnaughts for pve. that increased difficulty can be dealt with so it is not a deal breaker. all in all it is a good set of effects which work together in interesting ways. they permit different doctrines but are not as oppressive towards random guests as either the wolf rayet or pulsar. i would label it as something done right rather than a feature in need of change. but all of that is not what caused me to trip over your request for my vote. my concern is that if you intend to advocate for the space i live in you should do so in a way that is respectful of the way i use the space and play the game. half thought out ideas are harmful rather than helpful and to be honest it would be better to have less wormhole representation than a representative that causes bad changes. should you be successful in advocating that my home changes the likely result is that i would have to move the team to a different system and that is not something that will earn you my vote."
"that argument makes more sense. so, i am more arguing for having the eula defined better. however, let<U+FFFD>s define what is legal currently:multiple accounts - legalmultiple accounts while using a 3rd party program to monitor them - legalmultiple accounts while using a 3rd party program to send commands to every account at once by pressing one button. <U+FFFD> recently against eulamultiple accounts while using a 3rd party program to make decisions for you, so you are afk making a pizza (botting). <U+FFFD> always against eulaso, myself, i utilize legal approaches and multiple accounts while using a 3rd party program to monitor them. i don<U+FFFD>t need a 3rd party program to send commands to every account at once by pressing one button but i also know that some are angry that this has been taken away.i would argue that a monitoring program is exactly what people are argueing about. legal multi-boxing with isboxer is monitoring and sending commands one at a time to your eve clients. i like your description a lot <U+FFFD>can't input commands into that other account without first clicking it, bringing it to the front, and interacting with it, which causes me to lose control of my primary account (it's no longer in focus).<U+FFFD> this is exactly what we use isboxer for now.i understand people not wanting others to play solo, at the same time we were never meant to live in wh space. i do not agree with ruining others playstyles simply because you don<U+FFFD>t like it. that<U+FFFD>s what this boils down to. ganking and hotdropping could be treated with the same acid of community misunderstanding and mob mentality. i agree that you are more than welcome not to like how i fly, i do not agree that you or anyone should take that away. now ccp is the guardians of the game and they have the ability to do whatever they want. if they remove multi-boxing all together i<U+FFFD>ll leave. until then i will fight for my playstyle.to the mr. miton,"
"i will hopefully be there to talk about wh stuff, not multi-boxing just fyi. yes, this will be a never ending debate lol.check out my podcast! my blog!"
"holly twostep balls.. i dont even know some of those. dont be so cruel. in the end running for csm to represent a group does not mean you have to know them. what it means is you have to understand them. not sure how it is in this case though. shrug.burn the land and boil the sea you can't take the sky from me"
"thank you for the backing up. i do understand that i am not well known, but i still hope i can be a good choice to bring the feelings and views of all wormholers to the csm not just those of a single large wormhole corp."
"chitsa is my friend, and is a super nice guy. please don't misunderstand his alarm as \"back up\". no offense to you as a person, but your campaign is very ignorant of the community, mechanics, and gameplay in which you intend to represent. you've had some very knowledgable wormholers share thoughts and voice concern and you ignored quite a bit of it. you clearly aren't suited for this position, yet. again, you may be a swell guy, but you need to learn more and be more responsive and interactive to do the job you seek."
"i was gonna say something but then bert posted. so im good."
"hello mista cortex and good luck n' stuff.in the absence of my bigger sista, i'd like to ask you what would be on the forefront of her campaign queries.what are your views on wormholer fashion in yc 117, and do you think the physically simulated hair look should remain with finished portraits and not just be a visual feature in the character creator?i'd still really love to see his answers to those questions though."
"do you live in a black hole? if not why are you so eager to petition for changes to someone elses home? i live in a black hole system and rather like it. yes some things are more difficult but that is part of the charm as well as the balance."
"it wont though, the new requirement will just be \"have all skills to v, then do every minigame as fast as possible the second its available\", your still competing with the same products with the same profit margins, your just upping the amount of \"sitting at the computer staring at something\" required to participate."
"aiwha wrote:wormholes more newbies! wh space is desolate. (its not dead, but its very empty) i want to promote more ways for newbies to see both the riches and danger of wh space, and become a new generation of crazy mad max capsuleers. . this can be done as a player. similar to brave's efforts."
"nariya kentaya wrote:it wont though, the new requirement will just be \"have all skills to v, then do every minigame as fast as possible the second its available\", your still competing with the same products with the same profit margins, your just upping the amount of \"sitting at the computer staring at something\" required to participate.i must respectfully disagree. i do appreciate your comments and feedback though. jenshae chiroptera wrote:aiwha wrote:wormholes more newbies! wh space is desolate. (its not dead, but its very empty) i want to promote more ways for newbies to see both the riches and danger of wh space, and become a new generation of crazy mad max capsuleers. . this can be done as a player. similar to brave's efforts. that it can. in fact, brave's own dropbears are a perfect example. in the end, players are always going to be the ones responsible for our own content, but, i feel that ccp can and should do a little more to both raise awareness of wh's among eve's rookie population, and incite their desire for more."
"i approve of this candidate. very knowledgeable about wspace and from my past interactions with him he seems like a stand up guy!10/10 will be voting for him"
"what's your problem with clowns?!?!?! we got families to feed, too!"
"i'm not racist, but....clowns are scary."
"well, one different approach to the system in use atm that i had in mind was to remove the donation of lp entirely and, in his place, substitute it with a permanent % detraction in lp from the total amount that you get from a mission,a fw site reward and from killing enemies...from the actual system you collect lps, actually.this way the tiers bar would be tied to a more random effect instead of a constant donation of lps from farmers to one side until the market flips, plus defending and capturing a site would have a meaning beyond the actual \"lp farming+flip the system\": it would be \"lp farming+flip the system+lp contribution to keep and raise the tiers level\". furthermore, the % of lp detracted from a player conquering or defending a site would decrease as the tier level of his faction goes up, to a point that to obtain and keep tier 5 would require a lot of manwork/farming/system control(pvp)/etc. for example.also, it would mean that all the factions could hold the same tier as long as they will have ppl actually fighting, capturing, defending, missioning, instead of the actual \"one side only\" system. i say \"one side only\" system, because once the farmers exploit the market enough from a single faction's lp items sell, they switch to the other side, and those that are there for the true meanings of fw (pvp with a lore underground) they simply don't count that much, even though they are those that fight the most/lose the more and flip systems more than the farmers...basically those that make the hard work (pos shooting, gate camping, roaming, you know the job)i would also add more pve random content honestly, for example packs of amarr coercers/minmatar thrashers trying to camp an enemy faction owned station/capture a site/etc."
"if there was one thing you could do to change fw, to make it not so stale, make it harder for farmers to just make lp without contributing to the effort, and to get better fights, what would it be?"
"it would be good to get a fw representative on the csm, i am glad you are running.how do you plan on enticing more groups to join fw? at the moment there is not a huge incentive for players to join fw outside of farming lp.do you have any ideas about how to make system upgrades and tiers worth more than they currently are? at the moment a systems level means almost nothing and the tier just determines whether it is worth running missions or not.in your opinion should the ability to run fw missions in a bomber be nerfed even harder? the initial intention was, as i understand it, to encourage players to fly pve ships through lowsec to run these missions. in a bomber they are not only too safe to run, they are also not a very interesting target to hunt. even if nothing else where changed other than an extra 3-5 light missile batteries at the warp-in for each site i would be happy.do you have any ideas on how to encourage people to fleet up in fw space?"
"you have my support, however i have one question ?what do you think could be done to cater to people who join a side ( in my case amarr ) not because of the farming potential, but for lore/rp reasons ? i don't think you should be able to jump sides so easily.good luck for the election !"
"1.0"
"just heard you on capstable podcast, i'm actually well impressed. i hope you do well and seriously here this man out."
"what i find hilarious is that players are all \"but there are no apparent plans for new gameplay beyond the door\", yet meanwhile ccp is planning on allowing us to create gates that lead to space with apparent plans for new gameplay.of course there are ideas and possibilities for both, i just find the rhetoric amusing."
"hope you don't mind the skill loss since your last clone installation as you as a capusleer do not have the implant ability the dust troops do or would you settle for a permadeath?"
"<U+FFFD> external page giving more page?seriously though, i think the concern here is merited. new players are introduced to the idea of plex by word of mouth, which is usually not accompanied by admonishments about trading with dirty scumbags on the internet who steal your credit card details.how do we provide warnings about what is and is not a legitimate plex seller, without breaking immersion inside the game?i think the simpler issue is how to address the issue of rmt in general (especially since the intent is to sell aurum, with plex being a nex item).my suggestion would be to a) ensure that you have a current email address for all subscribers, then b) include warning/admonishment about illegitimate rmt through the newsletter."
"confirming that he left and donated assets to operation magic school bus.will not comment on reasonsm"
"as this isn't an assembly hall issue, i'll be closing it."
"as it's highly probable the player behind the character in question is or would be quite capable of deciding for him/her self if any justification should be given (as would most players of eve for that matter in similar circumstances), it's rather futile to speculate on the matter.as such, thread locked.isd ezwal"
"what is your opinion on the new state of industry throughout the regions of high, low, and null? are there still changes you want to see and if yes what direction would you like to see?"
"there are a few minor tweaks to industry itself, that i'd like to see (mostly tweaking the build time of t2 back up a bit. right now it's pretty easy for a single producer to tank a module by over producing it)industry, itself, is in a pretty good shape. i do want to see changes with structures, but those are coming. that's around the support infrastructure for industry.then you have resource gathering. i think there's work to be done there. not taking away the current action of mining (which a bunch of people like, because it's relaxing) but by adding alternate options, which are self limiting (so you can't just shift a big mining fleet over, and making much more isk, over a long time. but you could shift, and make more in less time, at the cost of more activity). and adding more game play around /finding/ sites to mine. once you have them, you can just lock on strips and keep going. but you have to find them (or have someone find them) first. something longer lasting than the current belts and sites."
"here is your ad. if you need or want something changed let me know and we can work it out. good luck with our csm campaign."
"here is your ad."
"+1well made video! you should post it on reddit"
"and i am not advocating or assuming that the csm gets to approve bans or control bans. i would, however, like to know if the person applying to join my corp has a shady history etc. that is the rationale behind my \"wall of shame\".oh heaven forbid that any game company, anywhere, lets players have anything to do with hiring or firing! i have, of course, been reading the blog posts, twitter et cetera of csm9 and have decided not to say anything more about it at the moment!"
"sounds like an epic story. why should tora be apart of a csm ballet if he's creating content? this seems like an excellent piece to go along with the rest of highsec fun. if gse lost 500bil and cracked because of it, yay! content! if gse cracked because of poor leadership, yay content! if gse is currently falling apart and tora is deccing every shed corp, yay content.#deletetheweak"
"0/ toraas a fellow merc, i would love some changes to the gui for contacts and wars to give us more tools to analyze and organize data. here are some of the things i think need changing. i may spend some time to make some pretty pictures for these but for now.war history- a way to organize/sort war history by date ended, rather then date began. there are a number of other ways to sort them that id like but this is the main one.- colour code the background of each finished war with green for winner and red for loser - this gives some quick visual clarity.- add a search function that allows you to look up all wars that said corp/alliance was involved in, including assists.- add a pay bill button (and confirmation) to the right click options for active wars so you can do it from elsewhere.contacts- allow us to add a secondary colour tag to contacts for organization. for example, i set pending wars to orange, active wars to red, and i leave neutrals clear for when i mass add corps/alliances. id like to be able to set a secondary colour tag for things like known neutral scouts/logi, gankers etc etc.- label groups. please let me make a group of labels so i can split them into 'random wardecs', 'contract targets', ' other mercs', 'clients' etc. corporation- pay bills is buggy and shows a lot of finished wars, please fix- add a show info button when right clicking to pay a bill to give quick access to the corp info.- add a search filterother- create a customizable label that can be assigned to corps/alliances that all members can view (or even better have it customizable for certain roles. would be handy to be able to set contract targets or clients to a easily viewable list, or have an icon that appears on show info to immediately indicate the labelim sure there more i will add later. this was just off the top of my head"
"god yes to all of that, how do i give you more than one thumbs up?"
"this gse drama shows that tora is loyal to friends. this is supposed to be used as a reason to vote against him? that is some fairly odd logic"
"in these difficult times i at least trust tora (and sabriz) a hell of a lot more to make the right call, at the right time, on any given issue -- than the likes of mike asariah or sugar kyle, who just nod sagely when ccp suggests more nerfs to the game we love.just as you can always trust a mike asariah or sugar to side with a nerf and making eve into disneyland with slow paper-cuts, you can also count on tora and sabriz to defend the sandbox and say \"hell no!\". it really is that simple, everything else is campaign conjecture theatre for the autistic.tora, the man the sandbox needs.f"
"this year i'm starting to have a look at the running csm candidates in a bit more depth, and i've written a short review of your campaign, which can be found here."
"you have my votes, here is the campaign ad i made for you. i hope you like it."
"thats amazing, thanks alot!!!"
"this year i'm starting to have a look at the running csm candidates in a bit more depth, and i've written a short review of your campaign, which can be found here."
"yes yes yes...mike is a 'nice guy' who 'works hard'... but wasn't dexter also, working hard at slitting throats on hbo each week, while wearing a warm brother/father facade? hardly a dexter, but in mike's case it's nodding with trained-seal approval as ccp slits their own throats.also, this is pretty damning commentary from another csm who also sat behind the curtains.my point is this, csm membership shouldn't be a popularity or work-ethic contest (for dexter shure worked hard at putting a lot of bodies in the ocean...). it should be about people who will simply fight to the death to defend the damned sandbox. we don't need a fence-sitting trained seal or carebear supporting nerfs. we need someone who will defend the sandbox.eve is not wow for a reason, but mike would take us there, while pretending he isn't helping ccp do just that.f"
"+1 vote for dexter mikeanyone who slaughters bad guys- -hunts evil promotes fun is good in my book.mike isn't trying to turn eve into a theme park. he likes the sand box just as much as you and i do."
"for those of you unwilling to click the link i brought it over, with a reason.the reason is i agree with almost all of it, i just see it in a different light.he remains unconvinced of talking to the electorate, to going and and connecting with the players. to being on these forums. i am convinced that is what you are electing me to do. communicate. if you think csm/ccp knows best and they do not need you bumping his elbow then vote for people who only talk during the campaigns.fence sit? i always try to see both sides of an argument and usually both sides have some good points. i do not like things in black or white, for us or against us, part of the problem or part of the solution. the world does not work that way. it is of compromise, agreement, consensus. so i engage, ask and look for the gems on each side of an argument. but that does not mean i waffle, notice he did not accuse me of that. i do make a stand but usually it is somewhere closer to the centre than some others do. since he is more to extremes he finds me tough to read.active and engaged. . . . wow that is really damning, i have nothing to say to defend myself against that.anarchist- yup. i make my own rules and have an ingrained aversion to playing my game for someone else. that is why i do not do well in null. casual players cannot play alarm clock games, cannot make their monthly quotas of fleets and required activities. in sions eyes a lot of players are probably slightly anarchistic. i represent them.i read sions article and laughed. what he saw as negatives are my best features. i like sion as well, i get along with most folks. comes from that centering tendencies of mine. i am what i am.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"none of them are high sec content creators though."
"that depends on what your definition of content creator is. sabriz seems to have a blinkered view, as if any change which doesn't promote codes ability to shoot newbies is automatically not content creation, as if shooting a bunch of mining barges piloted by players who generally have no clue what they are doing is actually worthwhile content to support."
"their track record of advocating for nerfs to our playstyle, and of general uselessness speaks for itself. i realize that csm is a sort of club and that most current and former members like to stick up for each other. to the rest of us, though, if we are paying attention and being honest, csm9 looks to have done as poor a job as csm8 did.the field doesn't look much better for csm10 either. sabriz and tora both stand out in that they both represent an important and historically underrepresented playstyle.it is true that there are others out there who are better qualified to represent highsec content creators than sabriz is. unfortunately, none of them is running this year. and sabriz is more qualified than you may think. if you judge him purely on his killboard (which certainly isn't bad) you may scoff and say, \"bah he's no cannibal kane, no arden elenduil, no jerry rin (jerry rin for csm! and unban him too please...), but the fact remains that sabriz is smarter and more fair minded than all of us put together. and unlike most highsec content creators, he actually takes the csm seriously. if you elected me to csm, i'd show up at the summit just for the free food (is there free food?) and just troll the whole process from start to finish."
"your statement shows that you do not know sabriz, what he stands for, or what he has been saying. considering how much you've been posting in this thread i find that surprising."
"to me this is the key and why sabriz, tora, or ideally both should be ellected. they represent a play style that currently has zero advocates as csm candidates. funky bacon filled this role on csm 9 and i was happy with what i saw from him, even though it wasn't his primary field of focus. if neither of these guys get elected, than every csm member will represent either nullsec, wormhole space, or carebears. having at least one of these two candidates will give a voice to a play style that currently has no representation on the csm. and no, sabriz is not running as a code candidate (though he is in code) he's running as a content creation candidate. vote sabriz!"
"quoted for truth, these are the men these times call for.f"
"i was highly disappointed by the changes to jump freighters and the jump bridge network. core, will you in the future fight to improve the mechanic or even reverse it in the coming year?"
"that's a bad remix."
"it's not a remix it's a mashup ha!you're too old it's no surprise you don't get it."
"hey jayne,i have a question that hasn<U+FFFD>t really been addressed but i believe could be a concern for others who are interested in being a part of the npsi community. i spent a long time in the game doing a lot of pve stuff and frankly it became boring, i was about ready to leave the game when i found spectre fleet and the other npsi communities like bombers bar, rvb ganked, frigate fun, sir squeebles, redemption road, etc. the npsi community revitalized my interest in eve online and i love how in the community i can jump on several different fleets a day depending on my mood with any of the npsi communities and still feel at home. it<U+FFFD>s great how all these communities cross over and there<U+FFFD>s no sense of hard feelings if you flew in a bombers bar fleet with the same guy in the morning and in the afternoon killed him when you were in a spectre fleet and they were with one of the other public fleets. it<U+FFFD>s npsi, everyone laughs about it and you<U+FFFD>ll fly with them as friends the next day. with npsi really being where i learned how to pvp i developed the mindset of ashurman where <U+FFFD>there are no blues. there are no reds. you just kill anything you can thats not purple<U+FFFD> at least for that short while your in an npsi fleet. just don<U+FFFD>t be a jerk. from my experience many regular npsi pilots have the same <U+FFFD>hippie<U+FFFD> mindset where there<U+FFFD>s no reason to get butthurt over a little friendly npsi pvp.my problem started when i joined a corporation that was part of a large sov holding alliance. at first it was great and i looked forward to even more pvp where i could either join the sov battles and experience that aspect of the game, or if nothing was going on or i was in the mood i could hop into an npsi fleet. i thought i could have my cake and eat it too. unfortunately i was surprised to find there<U+FFFD>s a lot of butthurt about this nonsensical blue thing. the worst part for me was when i<U+FFFD>d join an npsi fleet i<U+FFFD>d run into a ton of <U+FFFD>blues<U+FFFD> out there and you<U+FFFD>d either waste several hours on a fleet when the npsi fc blops<U+FFFD>d a blue carrier while you sat on your hands, or you<U+FFFD>d have to make a decision to throw away your good name and awox. instead of having my cake and eating it by getting on all the pvp i could handle, i ended up frustrated and disappointed because 50% of the ships the npsi fleet would see were blue sov alliance members. a lot of my other corp members who were npsi pilots found this a problem as well, which culminated in a number of them leaving the corp or <U+FFFD>messing up<U+FFFD> and shooting blue. eventually i left the corp and alliance as well because at heart i<U+FFFD>m an npsi player, but i do wish there was a way to do both npsi and fight in the larger sov battles without drama. for the most part it was inferred to me that i had to either choose the sov alliance and quit npsi or choose npsi and quit the sov alliance.while your club idea is interesting on some level<U+FFFD>s it doesn<U+FFFD>t address this sort of issue. is there a way to have my cake and eat it too? is there a way to be in sov alliance but have them not get all bent out of shape because i decided to join an npsi fleet one slow afternoon? someone in a club would still have the problems i had.one thought i had that you can use and consider if you get on csmx is the idea that if someone joins an npsi fleet all your blues see you as red or orange. that way they know at that point in time your not blue to them and vice versa. perhaps a notification to alliance and corp mates that during the fleet you are not a friendly. you can kill them and likewise they can kill you and there will be no butthurt on either part. if there<U+FFFD>s worries about spying, perhaps when you join an npsi fleet your corp, alliance and any related alliance scouting channels would be unavailable to you. that way no one could say your a <U+FFFD>spai<U+FFFD>. maybe it just comes down to large alliances and corps understanding and rethinking npsi and pvp as a whole. maybe people just need to get over internet space ships as being <U+FFFD>super serious business<U+FFFD>, or maybe i<U+FFFD>m just an npsi hippie and need to shut up. regardless i wish there was a way i could have stayed in the alliance i was in and still be able to do npsi pvp when i want and how i want.at this point i jumped into my own small corporation so no one gets upset and i can do what i want as i so choose. it<U+FFFD>s a little bit lonelier though and in some ways i would like to join an alliance that gives me the benefits of working with others. i think my example show<U+FFFD>s an issue where npsi<U+FFFD>s regular members will be forced to stay in loner, npc, or smaller corporations and alliances. it would be nice if we could find a way to address that."
"this year i'm starting to have a look at the running csm candidates in a bit more depth, and i've written a short review of your campaign, which can be found here."
"so by strong platform you mean:1. \"ccp's idea of corp-lite sounds neat! i should be voted based on this even though i didn't contribute anything new to the idea!\"and2. complaining about wardecs ( ) but providing no alternative."
"no, by strong platform i mean that he has a good understanding of what the csm does, he's got a primary target audience but has evidenced that he's able to consider issues outside of that area and has a good idea of what will be beneficial for the game overall. i'd trust him to make decisions and raise concerns as a csm member that would help ccp improve the game.look, i understand that you have some personal issues with jayne, and i don't care. not even a little bit. whether or not some random player dislikes a csm member is completely irrelevant to my opinions of them. i don't care if he wronged you, i don't care if you feel like his actions make him a a terrible person, i simply don't care what your opinion of him is. i'm calling these like i see them, and in my honest opinion there is no better csm candidate for players who enjoy the npsi playstyle."
"please look at my posting history and you will see i critique several csm candidates. i don't have a \"personal issue\" with jayne and he hasn't done anything that i feel \"wronged\" about. his idea for the npsi portion of his platform isn't even his idea and the \"issues outside of that area\" (i assume you mean wardecs) provides no actual solution.\"wardecs are currently bad!\"ok? i disagree, with your premise that they're just griefing tools but sure, what is your suggestion to solve this problem?tired of candidates that say \"x is a problem!\" but offer no ideas or solutions."
"it's not a csm members job to come up with all the ideas, it's their job to present players concerns and ideas to ccp and work with ccp to ensure that what they do deliver is designed around what players expect. in this instance jayne has simply answered a question about what he would remove from the game if he could, and struck a chord with me. he's not being asked for a replacement idea, and i certainly wouldn't expect him to come up with one. quite honestly though, removing wardecs as they currently stand would be less terrible for the game than their existence currently is. as they stand, they make it completely pointless to attempt to run a corp in highsec, which is bad for player interaction. if you run a corp that isn't a pure pvp corp, and you get beyond a certain size you become an instant perma-dec target for the few groups looking to farm easy kill. i'd love to see large corporations of all types duking it out in highsec, but that just doesn't happen very often at all."
"garbage. csm is not just a stand in. they're suppose to help ccp by presenting possible solutions and ideas because they're suppose to have first hand experience on the subject. a csm should do more than say \"hey ccp, x demographic is complaining about y issue.\" they're suppose to communicate possible ideas, and suggest solutions.of course it struck a chord with you. not surprising. but here's the big point: you shouldn't be able to run industry nilly willy without conflict. so yes if you want to run just a pve indy corp, you shouldn't be able to. you need to htfu and be prepared to defend yourself. plenty of highsec corps do exist and simply being ignorant of that fact doesn't necessarily mean we need to turn highsec into wow styled candy land."
"lucas! thank you for the kind words. i initially saw your blog when it was posted in the #eveblogs channel on tweetfleet, and was pleasantly surprised to find that you'd chosen to write about me, as well as mike. how many of these do you plan on completing?"
"you're very welcome, thanks for running. at this point i'm just going to chug on through as many as i can before the voting concludes. i'm aiming to do a minimum of 10 though."
"ask a dozen people \"what is the csm?\" or \"what is the role of the csm?\" and you'll get a dozen different answers.that being said, i think your statement here is way off the mark. at no point has the csm ever been about peddling your own ideas to ccp in order to get specific changes implemented. the csm has never operated that way, nor has it operated as a mouthpiece for whomever complains the loudest. suggest specific ideas? don't know about you, but i don't have a coding background, and i would wager that 90% of the sitting csm doesn't either. i don't know what is physically within the realm of possibility and i don't know what ccp's current development focus is, either. without a conversation with ccp, nothing productive is going to get done. if it was just about communicating ideas and suggesting solutions, i'm sure we could keep on keepin' on with nothing more than f&i threads and crowdsourced solutions.the csm-ccp interaction is a two way street, it's as simple as that.this year, i'm fortunate enough to have my interests in game perfectly aligned with the development roadmap that ccp has already laid out. my expertise can help ccp redesign a portion of the game which needs work, an aspect of the game that ccp has already begun tackling. i don't want to suggest or design all-encompassing features - there's simply no point. that's what the actual employees of ccp are paid to do. as csm i want to make sure that ccp gets it right, i want to make sure that they have the best information and perspective possible in order to design and implement the best product. that's how i can help.if you don't believe in my vision of the csm-ccp interaction, well, i don't really care...this is almost exactly what's written in the white paper.key section: \"be available for formal feedback on 'work in progress' matters\"i may not have been the only person responsible for having crafted these ideas, but i'll tell you one thing - ccp didn't come up with the societies proposal on their own. we've been tooting that horn for a long time - way before the minutes were released. it's nice to finally see the fruits of our labour, from all of us (both on and off the csm) who have contributed to the proposal."
"tommas, i read your post and i appreciate the kind words.i'll reply to your question soontm but i'm going to take my time and answer it in full. you'll probably have to wait for the weekend before i can give your question the attention it truly deserves. there are a lot of good points i'd like to touch on."
"presenting ideas, yes. coming up with their own ideas, not so much. sure, if they can think of a good idea that solves a problem, great! primarily they are there to give feedback on what ccp is doing before the playerbase is allowed to see it. i certainly don't expect csm to churn out ideas like they are living in f&i.except i already do run industry \"nilly willy without conflict\", i just sit in npc corps, run solo corps and outsource to other solo players. and at the same time, why should industry players be forced into being targets of wardeccers for what amounts to pocket change if they want to form anything beyond a handful of players? why should you be able to make just a pvp corp, but not just a pve corp?and yeah, there's plenty of highsec corps, just very few big highsec corps. big highsec corps and alliances are generally wardeccers or pure pvp groups. it's not just useless to attempt to run a large highsec industry corp, it's shockingly less efficient. even if npc corps didn't exist, running everything as solo corps would be far safer than piling together industrial characters, because the moment you get past a certain size you get permadecced by a group who pvp all day every day. i agree that conflict is required, but the current wardec mechanic is fatally flawed because it doesn't promote conflict, it promotes antisocial risk aversion. it would be far better if the mechanics for highsec promoted players to need to work against each other, both with pvp combat and with economics. it doesn't though, right now it simply acts as a way for pvp players to turn off concord so they can farm easy kills.that all said however the fact that you refer to it as turning \"highsec into wow styled candy land\" suggests that you have no interest in a serious discussion over it. you want to reject it out of hand because you assume that the suggestion is \"get rid of fighting in highsec\" even though both i and jayne have explicitly stated that to not be the case."
"no problem jayne, whenever you get a chance to answer, i<U+FFFD>m just glad it wasn<U+FFFD>t lost in the other dialog. now i<U+FFFD>ll take a stab at the at the wardec discussion a bit. what about rethinking the highsec as a whole. 1.0 systems are supposed to be the <U+FFFD>safest<U+FFFD> systems where concord polices them with the best response time, etc. what if concord determine that 1.0 systems are considered a <U+FFFD>peace zone<U+FFFD> and a war dec does not include 1.0 systems. 1.0 systems are deemed neutral zones for corporations. 1.0 systems aren<U+FFFD>t all that profitable for pve<U+FFFD>er<U+FFFD>s but it still gives them a safe area during war time. it doesn<U+FFFD>t really hurt pvp war dec corps all that much because in order to get in and out of 1.0 systems the war targets still have to go through 0.9 and below space. they just have to gate camp the 1.0 system and it<U+FFFD>s basically business as usual. one could argue the possibility that 0.9 systems should be exempt from war dec<U+FFFD>s as well but i wouldn<U+FFFD>t go any further than that. now these <U+FFFD>neutral<U+FFFD> systems wouldn<U+FFFD>t be completely exempt from pvp. i wouldn<U+FFFD>t stop the normal ganking, can baiting, etc."
"bobmon is pretty much the worst. he kept talking to me and being passionate and enthusiastic, and then i started to realize that he's a good guy and that he'd be good on the csm. but i'm a goon, and he's the chief editor of en24. i couldn't like him. to do so would shatter concrete laws of nature and send the universe itself into chaos. and not the usual kind of chaos. the universe ending kind of chaos. but i can't help myself, and so it is with a heavy heart that i confess bobmon is pretty okay. no! more than okay! he'd bring whatever strange power he used to melt my cold black heart to the csm, and he'd create pax bobmonica and all would be right. until the fabric of reality unraveled. so you see, bobmon has doomed us all, and for that, he is the worst. bobmon 2015. because there won't be a 2016."
"sion,"
"bullshit, you published a badly written page hit driver with no research done and not an ounce of consideration for the people you **** on by wording it the way you did. the worst thing is you still show no sign of having learned anything from that debacle, nor have you shown any understanding of the wider benefits of recent changes (rollback the phoebe jump changes, i mean really??).sion, passion for your subject matter is a good thing but it needs to combined with a working brain and a sense of empathy, neither of which bobmon has shown he possesses, so i wont be voting for him and i highly encourage everyone else not to either."
"i don't want to roll back the jump change, i just wanna tweak it using the playings feedback just like any other new thing ccp has put into the game since the start."
"+1 got my vote bobmon, putting alot of effort here nice read aswell :) good luck!"
"your stance on wardecs in general is what would be the decided factor for my vote on you. although i agree the system needs to change, there are a few things i would like to have addressed. for the most part you seem to under the belief that the 'victims\" of a wardec are just that victims. from my experience, rarely are defending corps often have several things in there advantage. the first and foremost being numbers. common decced entities like brave newbies, and the such, out number every wardec alliance corp out there. they lose massesively because focus is not applied to the aggressors. but when they do put focus they end up kill a neat amount of ships. (lookin at you drop bears) other smaller corps often have the advantage of having the aggressors having to come to them, in their home systems. home system were the targets are have the ability to have a counter ready to undock. for the most part from what i've seen, the victims of wardecs are only victims because they allow themselves to be the victim. there are exceptions. but if you create or corp made of sub 4 month players your bound to get hurt, is that a problem with eve in your eyes? eve was built on the idea of actions should have reactions. with that, i ask, do you feel that wardecs are a problem due to older players picking on younger players? you use of victims seems to make me seem so, personally at least. or do you believe it is underlying layer that belongs with the npe and the tutorials not properly explaining things with detail? if you had free reign to change the wardeccing system, how would do so? war dec dodging, a corp closing once it is decced, and reforming with the same name, do you feel this is an issue as it basically defeats the wardec feature as a whole? or do you feel that wardecs are unbalanced in the favor of the deccer that it is a necessary need until the system can be reworked? thanks for the response o/#deletetheweak"
"you're the reason i signed up for eve. and you're my ref. i knew the game since 2008/2009 and i had multiple trials in that time, but i've never had the chance to grasph the game.this is not a regular orc game- go kill rabbits and pick up gold. this you have to learn. for ever.thanks to you i'm flying nemesis and i'm doing fairly well."
"the wardec system is unintuitve because it allows someone to bribe concord to look the other way, but doesn't (for some reason) allow the defenders to counter bribe concord to protect them. because of this, wars can be extended indefinitely even if the defending group has a gigantic fiscal advantage.yes people can defend themselves, but they also have to humor troll wars that are declared by organizations with no intent of having a war against them in any military or financial sense. wingspan could wardec 100 corps tomorrow then sit in w space, showing the pointlessness of this backward system."
"many have already expressed my reasons for endorsement, so simply - thumbs up!"
"deal chance,i want to thank you for inspiring me to come back to the game with your youtube videos. you have my vote. best regards,2becuil"
"i see many of u are questioning his experience as a pro.. or vet in the game... i dont think he is a good pvper or a pro.. but he creates content inspires fun.. as a solo pilot with 1600 kills.. i couldnt care less if he knows how the hit the right mod or has spent time in null with the power blocs or knows much about highsec wardeccing noob merc corps. all i care about is at the end of the day eve is a game that when played should be fun and entertaining.. and a lot of vets have forgotten that. eve is a game for fun not a job or has a specific agenda to push for csm... when i see his vids and what he is all about.. he is only person i believe that doesn't have a specific agenda and isnt a puppet for one of the factions. but a representative of just having a good time in a video game.. which is what eve should be about. that is why he 's got my vote."
"while you clearly aren't what some would describe a \"bittervet\" i think that's a very good change from the traditional csm layout. it's great to finally see a marketing guy step up to the mark and i'll certainly be considering you as my vote.just a few questions.considering that it has been deeply ingrained in people's minds that eve is a \"space sociopath spreadsheet simulator\". how do you plan to go about dispelling the bad press that surrounds eve online? do you intend to push for more traditional television advertisements or focus primarily on an internet audience?if you had to pick one thing to be emphasized more/at all in the tutorial what would it be and why?and finallyconsidering all those unclaimed plex's sitting in your account have you ever thought about making it space rain on unsuspecting newbros?"
"+1, i support the above message."
"she has been a great corp member and works hard!!! definitely has my vote!!"
"the cap stable podcast recently sat down for an interview with ashterothi, it can be found here:"
"i would like to point out this recording was done before the drama with funky bacon came out. obviously my answer has changed"
"hail thoric !! he surely get my vote"
"thanks for the info. i would guess this is a case of people who don't live in black holes find it hard to adjust to the effects. where as the people who do live there get use to it. i'll guess they will have to just figure it out."
"i'll say it once again since you apparently didnt read my last comment: there's a really big difference between running multiple accounts manually and using 3rd part tools to assist in running them, even if youre not sending commands to multiple accounts with it.note that i say this as someone who have multiple accounts and does manually multibox in many aspects of eve.i consider myself a multiboxer and you do not represent my views at all. in fact, you represent exactly what gives multiboxers a bad reputation and what is wrong with multiboxing. stuck in here with me:"
"angrod,you have taken a pretty polarizing approach to your campaign in regard to multi-boxing. although i appreciate your perspective as an individual advocate for your playstyle, you aren't running for csmx to be an individual advocate; you are running for csmx to be a representative and advocate for the playerbase.your responses to players who advocate against your playstyle has shown that you are defensive (which is fine for an individual advocate), but as a representative, you shouldn't polarize your constituency. i don't agree with your style of gameplay personally, and personally i think using a third party automation to run multiply clients at the same time is akin to cheating. i multibox when i've done pi, cyno's/capital movements, mining, manufacturing, and occasionally scouting. i have never used an automation service to do this, and i've sometimes messed up and lost ships, where i wouldn't have if i had used a third party service.the point is that as a representative, you have to be able to represent this playerbase, and if a strong majority of your constituency says that they don't want automation services allowed for multi-boxing, then you have to represent that view to ccp. if you can't do that, you aren't suited for the position and shouldn't be running for csm."
"i'll respond to each of you, mr. miton i understand and have read your views on third party applications. i understand you do not agree with third party application. i simply disagree with the statement \"there's a really big difference between running multiple accounts manually and using 3rd part tools to assist in running them\" hence my response. either way, i advocate for what ccp allows. mr. diadochu i agree that i am polarizing and that this is a very polarizing subject. however, you like many before get confused with the whole automation concept. i am not advocating for automation currently. automation implies no player interaction, multi-boxing even with third party applications requires the same if not more interaction. i realize that not alot of the player base wants or even likes multi-boxing or third party applications. i am advocating for those that do, as well as other aspects regarding wh's, npe, scanning, and the most recent issue i see with ice in shattered frig wormholes. if you don't think i should be running don't vote for me, simple as that. bottom line, mutli-boxing is not automation, many seem to be confused about this.check out my podcast! my blog!"
"this is where you are terribly wrong. i don't confuse automation, and you clearly have no clue about how automation works. i work with automation every day at work. automation actually has quite a bit of user involvement and requires a measure of control depending on the depth of the automation protocol. automation in the case of multi-boxing is layered similar to an onion. you are lumping it all into one definition and are wrong about this subject, and like xenuria, refuse to accept that you are incorrect and instead, are just telling others they don't understand it. you are losing votes daily doing this nonsense.i encourage you to throttle back on this subject and move on with your campaign. everyone sees your view on multi-boxing and many disagree with you. you are doing absolutely nothing but hurting your campaign right now."
"very cool interview!"
"steve, you get mine (and all my alts) vote. you've been a great asset to eve community. keep it up!"
"it's yours to use as you see fit. feel free to post it anywhere you like."
"not empty quoting."
"you can write a blog any way you want it to go. it<U+FFFD>s clear that you and i don<U+FFFD>t like each other. this is affecting your judgement. if i give someone a peace of cake, they would probably say <U+FFFD>ohh nice, thank you, i love cake!<U+FFFD>. someone like you would say <U+FFFD>ohh tora is a bad man, he is trying to make me fat!!<U+FFFD>. if you want to be a good writer lucas, try to write these things without personal feelings. it<U+FFFD>s probably the hardest thing to do as a writer. this is one of the things that will make me a good csm, as i can do this.<U+FFFD>tora has changed his mind since he started his campaign<U+FFFD> vs <U+FFFD>tora listens to the community and is willing to change if needed<U+FFFD>the csm isn<U+FFFD>t about my ideas, it<U+FFFD>s about the communities ideas. a csm is there to listen to the voices and express them at the meetings.<U+FFFD>i<U+FFFD>ve been quite critical of a few csm members since the beginning of these campaigns, and tora is the only one that has gone out of his way to ignore me, even going so far as to block me on twitter from reading his feed.<U+FFFD> looking at how people respond to your forum walls of text, are you sure it<U+FFFD>s just me who wants to ignore you ?ok, thanks for the effort and eve content (yes, i really mean that ), but i<U+FFFD>ll be going back to ignore lucas mode. life short and prosper...... tora"
"i call it as i see it. it has nothing to do with feelings for you. i have no reason to dislike you beyond the fact that you are a terrible candidate for the csm for precisely the reasons i've listed. you don't \"listen to the community\" you listen to a few select people and you change your mind if it will benefit you to do so. a csm member needs to stand up for what the community wants, not just pitch and agree with ideas. i don't trust you to do that, and i certainly don't trust you not to change your mind about what is a good idea half way though. how can players be behind you if in 2 months time you might suddenly be against their playstyle because you can't make up your mind?i get the impression that you just sit there and echo what you think people want to hear. more importantly than anything else a csm member needs to be free-thinking with clear opinions about what is good and bad about the game, backed by substantial eve knowledge. i don't believe you have that. i believe you'll say what you think people want to hear to try to get yourself elected, and you'll do it more for the glory of \"look at me, i'm a csm member\" rather than to actually help the game.thanks though for turning this into an attack on me personally. this just further proves that what i wrote in the blog post is true. you are unable to handle criticism at this stage, so there's no way you'll be able to handle the amount of criticism you'll get as a csm member."
"lucas, your blog post and your comments in this csm thread and others show you to be ill-informed, judgemental, and overly biased in your opinions. also, you misspelled \"focused\".you need to learn to be fair and balanced in your reporting in your blog, like i am in mine."
"my opinions are just that, my opinions. they are no more or less biased than anyone else holding their own opinions. ill-informed i very much doubt - differing in opinion to yourself perhaps, but that doesn't make me ill-informed just because i don't agree with your point of view. and judgemental, sure. i'm writing a blog post which give my opinion on whether or not a csm candidate should be voted for, so it's likely to be judgemental.by the way, \"focussed\" is a common way of spelling the word in the uk. both are acceptable.and i tell you what. i'll write up my blog as i see things, alright? i write my opinions as they are. if that get's some people's backs up, then too bad, get over it."
"being a high-sec dweller myself for a long time with most of my characters and praying that eve doesn't turn that nerfed disneyland i will support tora and sabriz with my votes to the csm-x.eve need to stay as eve. the funny thing is:i have trader, mission runner, incursion runner, industrialist and all sort of high-sec professions among my chars, i fly with dscan everywhere i go, i keep one eye on what i'm doing and the other on local channel and the places where, supposedly, i would not be secure (low and null) are the ones where i'm not that paranoid. yeah, that is true, believe you or not.about content, was a long time, since innominate nightmare, i don't laughed as much as i do when reading miner bumping."
"not convinced that's not a code alt based on language, but i'll bite.i think quite a lot of people would rather eve doesn't turn into a \"nerfed disneyland\". but that's not what sabriz and tora stand for. what they want is their playstyles to be the primary playstyles of highsec. if tora was being honest, he'd realise how badly unbalanced wardecs are and propose heavy rebalances to that.it really amuses me though that you say that from a character who has always been in an npc corp. why no actual corp? could that be perhaps because entering into a player corp in highsec if you do anything beyond pure pvp is completely pointless, thanks primarily to wardec mechanics?at the end of the day you can vote for whoever you want. if you think tora is a good candidate, then go ahead and vote for him. just remember you're voting for someone who needs to have a wide range of skills - and most importantly needs to be able to maturely handle criticism - and if you vote for someone purely based off of the fact that for the past month he's run a campaign that says \"eve is evil\", you are more likely to end up with a dud."
"haha, yeah, my \"engrish\" is not that good, perhaps because is not my native language as well? as i said, believe you or not - uedama and halaima are a nightmare for me, but these guys are really active folks that love the game, as much as i do. i've being called an alt from lots of people in eve and i would love if that statement was a reality. unfortunately, i'm an alt of nobody, even playing eve since 2006.in fact, i have several disagreements with tora and sabriz. as example, i don't like when sabriz refers to haulers that take his courier contracts as \"useful idiots\"... and no, i didn't take any, but i need them too.i could log on the other accounts with chars in player corporations and alliances, but this is the one i use on the forum and i will post with him, regardless of what you think."
"a very balanced review that i will endorse.i also listened to the podcast.i agree with your final analysis and think he needs to get an agenda without contradiction as this can be seen as weak and people will not be comfortable with it.i hope he does not take this the wrong way as i know his way of playing and have first hand experience of the way he does things.as a conclusion i say that tora is not in the csm campaign for eve he is in it for tora which comes over quite clearly.good advise is free and can come from some unusual areas."
"if i make it to the csm, i'll promise never to listen to players like lucas, veers and sol."
"maybe you should be a bit more humble in your approach and not take all that is said as an attack!in the podcast you stated you listened to people and changed your approach, maybe the one's you are knocking have some good advice you should take on board just like the population you hope to represent?"
"humble, hahaha i am here for the evil side of eve, not for the crybabies in game."
"and you miss the point again."
"you know how arrogant that sounds. think about it"
"^^ that.i have nothing against sion kumitomo, but the fact that mike is essentially incomprehensible to him is an excellent reason to have mike on the csm: it means he's representing people who sion could not hope to speak for.and that's ok. it just means that eve is a big game."
"well i'll say mike came out against drone assist need, which i agree with him on and there were many other ways to balance carrier fleets. however i'm not sure his opinion on multiboxing and isboxer users. it"
"i believe people tend to forget that a candidate's opinions are a very small part of everything. the largest part of being a csm member is how they are going to represent the players. like sion said himself in his tmc article, they are just a focus and feedback group and not devs or employees of ccp. they filter and sort through the cosmic white noise that is the pilots comments, the forums, and the eve media. then they focus the strongest signals to ccp. this allows ccp to focus more assets on the game development and content. while being bound by nda, they do the same thing in reverse. they convey what they can to the public via multiple different avenues.candidates need to have the ability to focus on what is good for the game and not what is good for an individual or a group. communication skills and the ability to work within a team environment is also a must. their personal opinions are just spice added to meal, but not the whole meat and potatoes. creativity, knowledge of the game and the ability to provide educated thoughts to the csm group or devs is more important than personal and biased interests.mike a. has earned the respect of the incumbents, much of the player base and those at ccp. since we don't really have a good way of evaluating their performance while serving on the csm, we have to rely on those they have served with to give us some limited feedback on the their peers. since they can not speak poorly of each other due to the rules imposed on them, you can only go off the level of praise they give each other.mike is also supported by the majority of the those in the eve media. his willingness to do shows and interact with player base is also well known by so many. mike always has a notebook nearby to write down suggestions, comments and complaints. he is willing to funnel those things, that he writes down, to the right people at ccp or the csm group for discussion.my opinion is that if you don't vote for mike and put him towards the top of you ballot while voting, then there is something clearly wrong with you and you should go skill yourself in game. then give me all your things. just put mike in your top 10 for csm10!"
"it's still good comedy to watch you chest beast about sandbox when you don't acknowledge both sides of the coin. some play for pew and glorious internet spaceship murder. others don't. that you fail to accept this concept is your problem, not his."
"explain to me how this is honoring both sides urziel, in the context of eve being conflict and spaceship detonations at its founding core, and the first duty (in my mind) is for csm's to protect that, not help ccp slit their own throats on the road to wow theme-park. then search your soul on if mike has truly been defending that.i get he's your podcasting bro, but ccp doesn't need player help in making hisec a theme park from our elected csm's, when the csm's should be the balancing counter-point to ccp's theme-park intentions.f"
"this is worth reiterating.i want to see more conflict in highsec. not all of that will be driven by my alliance, and some of it may well be conflicts we end up defeated in.one of these proposals is for defender entities in wardecs to be able to collect some or all of the wardec fee by inflicting damage upon the aggressor entity. code. often initiates wardecs and seldom is the defender in one, so this would materially assist our rivals. i am still for it because it would increase conflict in highsec."
"what are your thoughts on the current state of:capital class warfare - good place or in need of some work? what are the areas that you think could use some work?anchored interdiction bubble spam - what are your thoughts on this? working as intended? or cowardly abuse of game mechanic? would you suggest changes to this either in the form of anchor distance restrictions, material input adjustments or something entirely different?sov resources - do you see a need for changes in the distribution of resources in sov null? if so, what changes might you suggest?local channel as intel - problem or non-issue? what are your thoughts on intel gathering currently in sov null and do you think it's in need of a change? if so, what change(s) might you suggest?thanks for your time and good luck."
"definitely voting for sugar (again) this year. i love that she is passionate about eve and that she treats everybody equally and is always willing to hear all sides."
"hi endie,i've been looking into csm candidates, and your interview, posts in this thread, and prior writings are incredibly impressive. i've meditated a lot on sov mechanics ever since running pfr through the sov meatgrinder after phoebe launched, and everything you say echoes my (admittedly limited) experience.two questions, if only because i find the discussion fascinating: first, what aspects of dominion sov do you think actually work, or even work well? something that surprised me about pfr's misadventures in etherium reach and scalding pass was how much fun the timer system could occasionally be. i expected the entire thing to be a death march, but only most of it was - some nights mucking about with sbus or sweating out the last few moments on a grind was actually kind of thrilling. i suspect that was mostly due to the small-scale nature of things though - there was never more than one super on the field - but i'm curious what (if any) aspects of the current system people with vastly more experience think might be worth salvaging.second, what do you think about the pacing of the changes - it's now more than three months after phoebe we still have no concrete information about what comes next for sov. one of your blogs discuss a concern that jump drive nerfs being the stick without the carrot needed to make things work - something i agreed with at the time, and am getting more concerned about each day that passes without more news..."
"timers can work. they work when they let an attacker and a defender essentially work collaboratively to set up a fight at a time both sides will show up. admittedly, neither side goes into setting a timer wanting that outcome. but if both sides are, for instance, based in eu tz and the timer comes out on their saturday evening then you can have a great fight.or, and here is the catch, you can end up with two thousand people in a system, straining the server to breaking point, which is why distributing the sov goals in space could work. picture, for instance, if all of the defender's systems in a constellation became vulnerable at the same time, but they only needed to win the majority of the timer fights in the constellation in order to save sov in the whole constellation? that is one very abstract example off the top of my head but you can see how spreading the fights out might lead to more fights, and smaller ones that require more people fcing, that cannot depend on jump-capable ships hopping around post-poebe and so on.don't jump on that as \"endie's solution for nullsec sov\" by the way: i have given different examples before and will do so again of different approaches: the ideal would be a synthesis of many that minimises the weakness of each. i cannot bring myself, however, to do a james315 and influict a 14-page summary of my blog posts on the eve-o readers"
"i agree, yes: i think that ccp were in \"do something, do anything!\" mode and that they brought in one element of a potential solution before the rest were even written-down, let alone on the table. from speaking to ex-employees of ccp i can tell you that the jump fatigue idea had been rattilng around for a very long time: i suspect that the clamour for action pushed them over the line to implementing it.it's not a bad system in itself - i gave it a cautious welcome while suggesting that iteration would be needed - but making it harder to travel while leaving in place a system in which fights are still a long way away was rash, and i am confident that the initial bump in pvp stats has dissipated since then.and to those ccp devs who have said to their customers (!) \"don't complain that you are a long way from enemies when you blue everyone nearby\" i would suggest that part of the job of game dev is to understand player nature and psychology, and not just to be good at balancing modules and ships. if you have a measure of success and prestige - holding sovereignty in the case of nullsec - then you cannot afford to be shocked and surprised and snarky when mmo players hit on the optimal approach to achieve the best \"score\" they can.don't blame the players: blame the game."
"as you know marlona sky has quit eve but before he quit he left behind what i still believe is a good proposal for high sec war dec changes, what do you think of what marlona proposes jayne?"
"i would agree that it has problems but you haven't answered my questions, although changing an entier wardec system is a big one to answer, i will admit but, i'll shorten it down. do you feel that corp rolling should be allowed? do you feel that the wardec systems harms npe? if so, how do you propose you fix it? also, you are a younger player, i consider myself one as well, we both have one thing in common. you've explored for your entire time in eve, i've been in the merc/wardec business my entire time in eve. i know next to nothing about sov space, lowsec, indy, mining and the such. i assume that it is about that same way for you. how do you feel competent enough to handled these topics as a csm?#deletetheweak"
"vote #1 - chance ravinnevote #2 - johnny pew ??"
"if you did your youtube campaign video in magneto's voice, i would consider even voting for you for president. you inspired me out of my bitter vet stagger. thank you!"
"chance is high up on my ballot with this current platform. as someone who went though the npe as a solo player, i think the only thing stopping me quitting was my extreme stubbornness. any improvements to the npe and tutorial will be positive for the game, and combined with improved marketing (this is eve ii! ) could improve the player numbers by a significant factor. one thing i would like to put out there is that all the marketing in the world won't work until there is a better npe. 10 million people trying the game and quitting does nothing but put strain on the servers. but, if chance sticks to this platform, he should absolutely be in your csm shortlist."
"here is your campaign ad. let me know if i made any errors, good luck."
"this man inspired me to get into cov ops. an hero"
"corp rolling is a byproduct of wardec and corp mechanics. i don't believe disallowing it will fix anything, just cause people not to log on.most totally new players are in npc corps, so i don't feel they are often the direct victims of wardecs.i don't intend to stick my head into sov any deeper than asking \"does this make sense and is it worth the trouble compared to what we have. i would also challenge some older players to justify how they will provide meaningful feedback on new/non player experience."
"playing since 2006 here and i agree with your statements about npe. we need new players, that is a fact. the thing that most vets don't realize, yet, is that we want new players as much as ccp.i'm voting and supporting you even if you only focus on npe for the entire duration of the csm."
"the cost/benefit ratio for tv will most likely be terrible. i'd instead advocate for paid sponsorship or establishes media personalities with loyal audiences of gamers. additionally there exists a lot more room to solicit and share eve content, perhaps with more contests or incentives to produce video. there also needs to be a hard look at the use of eve's site and landing pages to better convert organic traffic and answer common questions about the game.the tutorial should emphasize navigation and the market much more. i don't think new players understand who or what they're buying, ever, and eve's world so is so different than any other mmo it is very easy to get disoriented.and no i don't give billions out to newbros, gotta save it for a blingfit battle zephyr."
"i have to admit, while some of my colleagues think you maybe running on the \"i'm famous\" platform, and you don't quite has the whole 10 years of bitter vet experience, your interview and enthusiasm swayed us.i haven't heard a person with your type of enthusiasm in a while. it's not reckless excitement, you do have a focus. i think ccp and the community could use a person like you.good luck in the election."
"i love your enthusiasm. i love your emphasis on narrative, and on helping new players.you remember the part of the \"this is eve\" video where an erebus appears and someone shouts out \"oh my god that's a titan?\" have you ever seen the original video that produced those comms? i am unable to find it now, but the video shows a camera zoomed out far enough to show the entire pos that brave newbies is attacking. below the pos is a tiny yellow box which eventually resolves into an archon. while they're talking about their options (the archon is destroying them) an avatar appears above the pos. it is visible if you are looking for it. nobody notices. time passes. people keep talking. the line that made it into \"this is eve\" isn't uttered until the titan fires its doomsday weapon across the entire height of the pos at the archon, destroying it. it is impossible to miss that!but is it not remarkable that one of the most impressive ships in the game, 14 kilometers long, can appear on grid with a small fleet that has never seen a titan before without anyone in that fleet noticing? do you have any ideas to make eve more cinematic?"
"this is a good point and i don't think it would take much to help make gameplay more immersive and cinematic. there should be, for instance some changes to the default overview to make it more obvious who and what lands on grid without requiring the memorization of 250+ ship names.i also think there could be a window, or a targeting ui default, that shows your currently selected or targeted item up close. a window in a window. that way while you can stay zoomed out for tactical awareness, this window will show you what your target looks like and what is generally happening to it. you essentially then are interacting with ships and not brackets and crosses. this would be resource intensive potentially but all client side and optional."
"i think csm would greatly benefit to have you as a member as you can provide much needed, new player perspective. my concern is, how would you balance making eve more accessible to new players with maintaining its unique player base? eve has always been a place where tiger happy sociopaths, much like yourself, fell very much at home. what can be done to encourage high sec carebears and new players to venture into low/null/wh space without to much of a protective umbrella over them?"
"hmm , i really dont know if you have enough experience and knowledge to run for csm ..., but you certainly have enthusiasm and this game really needs someone who is not bitter about it , so you probably will have one of my votes good luck"
"ashterothi:i just wanted to mention what i good interview you had with cap stable. it, and a subsequent reading of your thread here, has pushed you onto my vote list.thanks!-- alan mathison, explorer & industrialist, star tide industries"
"gorski,you mention (as do many others) fw as a good way to get into solo/small gang for new players. while i agree that fw is a quick way into solo/small gang, the downside of absolutely demolished faction standings is rarely brought up.would you be open to a tags4standings idea to at least help people get back to zero faction standings? if so, would you voice your support for it to the other csm reps and ccp?fw is in a much better place now than it has been in a long time due to the changes to plex rat respawns & blocking cloaks within range of the capture point. standings repair is probably the next greatest hurdle that needs to be addressed imo (followed by lp taxation, though ccp said that would be quite a bit of work, it would be cool if they could work it into the corp rework over the next few release cycles, and of course mission payouts for something that can be done in a stealth bomber)."
"what are your thoughts on the current state of:capital class warfare - good place or in need of some work? what are the areas that you think could use some work?anchored interdiction bubble spam - what are your thoughts on this? working as intended? or cowardly abuse of game mechanic? would you suggest changes to this either in the form of anchor distance restrictions, material input adjustments or something entirely different?sov resources - do you see a need for changes in the distribution of resources in sov null? if so, what changes might you suggest?local channel as intel - problem or non-issue? what are your thoughts on intel gathering currently in sov null and do you think it's in need of a change? if so, what change(s) might you suggest?thanks for your time and good luck."
"here is your ad. you have my votes."
"what are your thoughts on the current state of:capital class warfare - good place or in need of some work? what are the areas that you think could use some work?anchored interdiction bubble spam - what are your thoughts on this? working as intended? or cowardly abuse of game mechanic? would you suggest changes to this either in the form of anchor distance restrictions, material input adjustments or something entirely different?sov resources - do you see a need for changes in the distribution of resources in sov null? if so, what changes might you suggest?local channel as intel - problem or non-issue? what are your thoughts on intel gathering currently in sov null and do you think it's in need of a change? if so, what change(s) might you suggest?thanks for your time and good luck."
"just finished my application to the csm ballot!check out my podcast! my blog!"
"greetings capsuleers,i often repeat the mantra of be the change you want to see, so here goes nothing. i am sick and tired of stagnant null, so that is my only platform. i know there are other issues facing all areas of the game, but this to me is the most important, so i am starting a crusade to make a change. i know many people are probably asking who the heck is this guy, and those that aren't are likely laughing their asses off that i even threw my hat in the ring, but nothing ventured nothing gained i guess. so on to a little about me.i have been playing eve since 2009, and have a somewhat diverse background, but nothing really special. i have lived in both sov and npc null with the likes of the cfc, pl, tri, and bl. i have also lived in both low and high class w-space. i enjoy pvp, and only do pve to make isk to buy and replace ships. sov null is, to me, the best part of the game, but as many know it has grown stagnant, and i would like to see that changed. instead of just complaining about how sov sucks, or even worse just quitting the game, i hope to at minimum offer insight on how i think we can improve the sov game even if i don't win, so here goes.many people have many different ideas on how null sec sovereignty should be handled in eve, so i figured i would weigh in with my 2 cents. many of these ideas have been offered before in various forms, so i am really just compiling what i personally feel are the best options and plans. my goal is to make sov null sec more regional, and less universal. i would love to see sov held by hundreds of smaller alliances constantly warring with their regional neighbors as opposed to being held by a few power players that keep everyone else at bay by their sheer number superiority.capturing sov - in my plan we do away with tcus, ihubs, and sbus, and go back to a system similar to pos sov with one slight twist. instead of using poses we use pocos. i feel this plan is better for 2 reasons. 1) there are considerably less planets in pretty much every system, so taking/losing sov is easier/faster. 2) there is no fuel needed, so you don<U+FFFD>t drive your logistics/industry team out of the game trying to keep 40 poses fueled just to maintain sov. owning sov is as simple as owning >50% of the pocos in the system. in looking at sov null the average system has 8.5 planets with the minimum being 1 and the maximum being 16. on average you will need to own 5 pocos to own sov, and worst case scenario is 9. by moving to a poco based system this also allows for split fights and strategy instead of all parties blobbing onto one objective.stations - if there is a station in system then it is automatically controlled by the sov holder, however if no alliance owns >50% of the pocos in a system, and for 72 hours after a system changes hands, the station will allow ffa docking and services rights. once an alliance owns a system for 72+ hours they once again have full control over docking and services rights/fees.occupancy based sov - lots of people talk about this, but rarely have i seen anyone put metrics on how it is measured, or what it does. in my plan <U+FFFD>occupancy<U+FFFD> is based on 3 metrics, two of which are already in the game, military and industry. these two would continue to work as they currently do except there would no longer be ihubs, so no ihub upgrades would be required for better anomaly and belt spawns. the third metric would be a war metric. this metric increases for every ship killed in system either for or against the sov holding alliance. this metric would be weighted based on the class of ship lost/killed. this should encourage sov holders to fight when roaming groups visit, and especially when their sov is under attack. i am sure some alliances will choose to have a thunderdome to increase their war metric, but since it is weighted based on ship class if they want to blue on blue a bunch of dreads and carriers to keep an enemy from taking their sov instead of fighting for it then death to all caps. these 3 metrics are averaged to determine the strategic level of a system instead of it being based on how long you have held a system. so what do you get for higher strategic indexes? i am glad you asked.poco hp - for every level increase the hp of the pocos in system owned by the sov holding alliance double. this means if an alliance never does anything in a system they own, and thus has a strategic index of 0, the pocos can easily be rfed/killed in a short time by a 20 man sub cap fleet(roughly 10-15 minutes for 20 bombers per poco). if they are active in a system they own, and have the strategic level at 5, then their attacker would need to bring a much larger fleet or caps, or be on field longer to allow a defense fleet to form and drive them away(roughly 10-15 minutes for 20 dreads per poco).rf timers - instead of giving the defender 2 days to a week to decide to fight let<U+FFFD>s make it more urgent. once again we will start with a base level of 0 and double for every level increase. the minimum rf timer would be 2 hours, and max of 64 hours. once again unused sov is quick and easy to take, but used sov provides the defender with more time to prepare. like now we can throw in a deviation of x% also.continued..."
"sov cost - this to me is the biggest key to occupancy based sov. for entities that hold vast swaths of space it does not matter really how quick and easy you can take their sov as they will just allow you to take it for a week, or even a month, then come back with a massive fleet that you have no chance against as a small entity and undo your gains in a very short time. we need a system that makes it detrimental to the sov holders that are not active in their systems, and to me sucking moon goo is not active. once again we will do our simple math, but backwards, and since we took out tcus and ihubs we will eliminate the confusion of varying costs for certain <U+FFFD>upgrades<U+FFFD>. at level 5 strategic index a system costs the alliance a flat 1b per 30 days. for each level below 5 the cost doubles resulting in a 32b per 30 day sov cost for a level 0 system. let me be clear that i hate isk sinks just as much as the next guy, but i hate empty 00 systems more, and the only way to provoke large alliances/coalitions to not take more than they actually <U+FFFD>need<U+FFFD> is to punish them for doing so. by having a scaling system you reward those who are actively using their space to rat, mine, and fight, and punish those who just own it for either the moon income, strategic value, or simply because they can.common concerns:what about logistics and/or null sec construction? this is for sure a concern for anyone who lives in sov null, and especially those who live in the farthest reaches. i think there are 2 solutions to this issue. the first is the use of wormholes. many null alliances already use wormholes for logistics and pvp fleet movement, but if you do not have a blue path to high sec you will be more dependent on wormholes than ever. this is also additional potential content between wormhole and null sec entities. the other solution is to tweak the resources available in null so that you could produce all t1 and t2 items for the race of your region. not only would this be a boost to null sec industry, but also would somewhat control the meta based on geography, and not just what is the flavor of the month.cloaky campers - null inhabitants already complain about how one cloaky camper can shut down an entire system, and a few a full constellation. some are concerned that a cloaky pilot in system could singlehandedly prevent activity in system, and thus lower the strategic level making your system(s) more vulnerable to attack. the simple answer is yes. if you allow one pilot, or one pilot with multiple friends waiting to join via cyno, to shut down everything you are doing then you deserve to lose your system(s). you should have a counter to whatever pvp could be waiting for you, or if nothing else if you lose enough ships to your enemy your war index will help keep the overall strategic index high.thanks for your time, and even if you don't vote for me please spread the word that sov changes are necessary."
"the hero gotham needs...you have my vote."
"and my sword"
"what are your thoughts on the current state of:capital class warfare - good place or in need of some work? what are the areas that you think could use some work?interdiction sphere spam - what are your thoughts on this? working as intended? or cowardly abuse of game mechanic? would you suggest changes to this either in the form of anchor distance restrictions, material input adjustments or something entirely different?sov resources - do you see a need for changes in the distribution of resources in sov null? if so, what changes might you suggest?local channel as intel - problem or non-issue? what are your thoughts on intel gathering currently in sov null and do you think it's in need of a change? if so, what change(s) might you suggest?thanks for your time and good luck."
"1. i think caps need work. i like the line i heard from grath that if you can do damage to me then i should be able to do damage to you. i don't want to see a scenario where caps, supers, and/or titans are only able to fight other caps, but can be killed by subcaps. i think supers and titans are especially in a bad place, and need a more defined role. i have mentioned to many people that i think aoe dds should come back, but in a different way, so that it isn't instant death to any ship within a certain radius, but does give them the ability to damage subcaps and caps alike. give them a reason to get out of poses, and you might actually see more in conflict, and thus more die. i think supers either need a distinct role, or need to just be removed. with the changes to drones and fighters it just seems that the main role for supers is to shoot sov structures, and if that is the only thing they are good for then why not just use a dread that is way cheaper, can be insured, and isn't a coffin?2. i don't think this is a huge issue in my experience, and i think if changes are made to null to create smaller regional conflicts it will be even less of an issue. fcs will be forced to choose giving up dps and/or logi to field more bubblers, and if they only field a small number then just primary those first.3. this is a tough one. if we are promoting occupancy based sov then i think the inhabitants of the region need to be able to produce all t1 and t2 ships and items locally of that region. i have heard others complain about the \"free isk\" from moon mining making eve a two class system(the haves and the have nots), but if/when regions are spread among more smaller entities almost everyone should have a chance to get their own slice of the pie if they are willing to fight for it. i like that the diversity of density will create more desirable constellations and regions within sov null.4. i think local is fine in null, but i would make 1 change. if you truly want no local at all stick to w-space. in terms of \"lore\", which i am not into really big, if we are in the future and have all this advanced technology we should know who comes in/out via a stargate, or is in a station. the only exception i would make is anyone entering a system via wormhole is delayed in local until they are \"detected\" by something in system like a gate, station, manned ship, pos, or other object capable of reporting their details."
"thank you for the responses and i think i mispoke on point #2 when i asked about interdiction sphere when what i meant was achorable bubble spam. could you respond to that, if you have time?"
"as a \"hunter\" i always hate running into a 100km wall of bubbles, but as someone who plays eve because of the sandbox nature i do not feel strongly that changes are required unless there are cases where it causes performance issues. it is a game of cat and mouse, and the mouse is using every means necessary to stay alive. just shoot all of their bubbles, and make them the time anchoring more."
"this seems to promote the idea of (super)capital-only fleets with no subcapital support being viable, because they can deal damage to both subcaps and caps. do you believe that is a direction the game should go in? why or why not?"
"each hole type does have their merits but there needs to be equal want for each hole time in my mind"
"why does there need to be an equal number of people wanting each weather? does this same idea apply to ships? weapon systems? anything else?"
"hole time? and if all things were equal... you would lose a lot of conflict drivers.+ today you are saying black holes are badtomorrow when you get dropped by phoenixs alpha'ing subcaps in a black hole like there is no tomorrow you will call for them to be nerfed...they let people use their own style of play... eve is a sandbox.**edit**sorry i can stop looking at your thread, its just like rubber necking when seeing a car crash :s"
"do you intend to ignore everyone that doesn't toss you a softball question, or do you enjoy ignoring dialogue from people in the community you are campaigning to represent? you are quite possibly the first wormhole candidate i've ever met that i actually want to go out of my way to make sure you get no votes. you really need to round turn your campaign or you are assured to have no chance at representing anyone this year. your chances were slim before now, but as it stands i know for a fact you aren't even being considered by some wormhole groups."
"obviously not. i just would like to see more people desire to be in wormholes. it it hard to find a new wher now a days"
"i am trying me best to get questions answered when i can"
"1) i do have to agree with your first point, i do understand that statics are always a great area to explore and i push the currently alliance i am in to explore our statics. also with the addition of secondary statics this does help corps make content.2) i do understand that but there is always room for improvement. maybe even some new wh effects.3) i can disagree with this i have had a very difficult time trying to find a new wh for my current corp.4) the mining is w-space should me more desirable."
"i can assure you most of my playing time of this game has been spent in a wormhole, on this character or on one of my alts."
"1) not an alt.2) i do understand that content can always be made of one looks hard enough. my point is there are options for the addition of \"different\" content to allow for diversity. also as far as my corp is concerned that's not a factor. nor should i need to reference in with that argument.3) i do understand your veiw for that one. i would however always like to see lower sp players become viable in whs4) refer to answer for #3"
"1) please expand on your answer for #2. what are the \"different\" options for content you are wanting to see?2) why haven't you been involved in the past with development of wormholes? (for example, many who've run in the past, started by simply being active and involved in making wormholes better as an individual contributor.)3) if you have been involved, please show some examples?4) what sets you apart from your competition and why should someone vote for you over any other candidate?5) have you reached out to meet with individual groups to do t's interviews? 6) so far, you've been super delayed on responsiveness and skip comments and questions. do you actually have the time and ability to be a csm delegate? do you understand their workload and have you sat down and spoken with any of the previous delegates before?"
"bane cortex wrote: i still hope i can be a good choice to bring the feelings and views of all wormholers to the csm not just those of a single large wormhole corp. as much as i do not like the way this post was written, it does outlines a few weakness.my one eyebrow also nearly crawled into my scalp at the underlined part.however, i think your concern about the large alliance is valid. at best, having people focused on worm holes, i think you are looking at specialists. i would say you need two representatives that live in two different systems, a class 2 and a class 5. we can argue that sleepers are sleepers and the mechanics of the links and such, blah blah, but there are some differences, not as obvious as low sec and null sec for example but the income, the type of neighbours you have, the usual size of the corps and alliances, et cetera, make for different flavours of worm hole living.i also struggle to see how you can get the word out to all the worm hole people because from my time in there, people weren't knocking on my pos and asking for a bit of ice, they were generally trying to kill me when i was out and about in systems or passing through as unseen and quickly as possible.so, evolve. fast.hopefully, we can have two or more worm hole representatives.also, try get all the people that are in other parts of space and are thinking, \"well, i would live in worm holes if the following changes occured ...\"my wish list? removed the frigate links that have no mass limit. reverse the d-scan immunity. allow alliances to build an outpost / station in their system. allow worm holes burn masses of fuel to keep a link open, without mass limit, long enough to burn out their neighbours (worm hole to worm hole only)."
"i see you've chosen to neglect young shelby's legitimate questions, so you're not gonna get a real nice post here, sir.if that's legit then you should be ashamed, honestly and deluding yourself a bit to think you can waltz in with a single thread of bs and get yourself elected. a complete unknown with zero history anywhere except some contentious posts filling up one single forum thread - this one, where almost all of your views have been vigorously challenged and support seems to be very minimal indeed.this is a crock of **** and you've already demonstrated that by ignoring shelby's questions. corbexx, on the other hand, has always had time for shelby and the rest of us, including listening to our concerns which aren't always directly wormhole related. though if you were a real wormholer you'd well and truly understand the comedic history between fashion and wormholes. corbexx would always listen to us and did such a great job with wormhole issues over the past year he even found some spare time, enough to take our concerns regarding fashion and avatar development to host a public workshop on ts surrounding it, in which several developers attended.he still contacts me occasionally, of his own accord, to ask if there's anything avatar-related i wish him to raise.i've never seen you in space, i've never seen you in the forums beyond this thread, i've never seen you at any wh-related meetings or ops on ts. when i test your mettle with a typical-dusette-esque question you don't even try to answer. then we've got herrbert's awesome serious of humorous (yet still semi-serious) questions where you had a beautiful chance to make a good impression with some fun, candid or comedic replies. but silence ..... that's not very wormholey, in fact you don't smell much like a wormholer at all.there's 10 accounts that won't be including you anywhere in their votes this year. you're gonna need all the support your nullsec friends can muster if you want it. no free trip to iceland for you, bro.-10 paging jack miton. corbexx (and trinket would have) will be getting 100% of my votes this year, and all our public support.<ed><U+00A0><U+00BC><ed><U+00BD><U+008C>
"
"but most of your game time hasn't been spent in wormhole space on cortex. if you've been in wormhole space on \"an alt\".... why not run on \"the alt\". if you've spent most of your playing time of this game in wormhole space... i implore you to prove it.if you really need a example of proof, i'll give you myself.i entered wormhole space in december of 2012. joined a random a corporation based in a c4 with a c2 static. initially they were miners (i know), but they had a good core group of people. ceo changes, we turn into a pvp corporation throwing t1 cruisers at t3 fleets (the logic is that if we took one of them out, we were isk positive and we caused the guy to lose 3 to 4 days of training time). we left the c4 to search for another place. wound up in a c1 after meeting some good people. hung there for maybe 2 months, but our group was way too large for it. moved to a c2 temporarily (after spending a week diving into wormhole space trying to find a viable home), then joined a merc corp alliance. wound up in c6 space rage rolling for pvp and running escalation sites on the side. we'd take contracts to do defense fleets for people.participated in one of the most devastating ops where we sacked 500 billion isk in wormhole space ( this was before the sma loot drop fix, thanks ccp :-/. ). on the side, i never left the c1 as we had a few people who enjoyed it. ran pi out of there, ran gas reactions out of there, managed the pos's out of there. i was running this under directorship roles from the corporation (god i hate that interface).left after usual drama lama stuff in alliance (some caused by myself). that and they moved out of wormhole space.wandered around a bit, tried brave for fun, almost went into their wormhole corp but the nightmare of living out of pos's in super large corporate alliance got to me ( i was doing that before, no fun ). joined another wormhole group but realized they were looking to join a large alliance themselves. found isogen 5 and they reminded me how wormhole space used to be. smaller gang, more intimate, scouting, exploration, discovery. and its from the ground up. i returned to wormhole space in july 2014.i have worked as a director, i have seen how crappy pos's are, how wormhole effects used to suck, how wormhole space has evolved. that is a history. that is a background. that is a resume, experience, the facts. that is the main of a person who is a wormholer, and i am just a line member. i am the bare minimum of experience needed for a potential wormhole csm, and my own experience isn't as good as 90% of the other wormholers who post on these forums. your the ceo of a \"wormhole corporation\", where is your experience, knowledge, background and backing? saying \"i did it on this guy or an alt\"... did what. i at least have one stupid operation i can point at and say \"yes i was there, yes i participated, yes i shot that\". i can happily admit i lost a brick tank prophecy on a highsec c1 wormhole exit because i left the prop mod running and out-massed the hole limit by 1 million. i can say that i rolled myself out of a c5 wormhole in a pod. those are basic experiences people have in wormhole space.. when they live in wormhole space.wormhole csm does not need an alt, they need a main. the wormhole community, you are no part of it. it is unfortunate that we would have to call out a csm candidate on not just their platform, but on their background, lack of history, lack of knowledge, lack of experience, and on what seems to be a total farse of a campaign solely to try to get some recognition, to waste a spot on the csm, to waste the time of the community in total, and to waste the time and money of ccp.the problem started not with the content of your initial post, it started with the subject line of your post. wormholers unite..... what the heck are you talking about? we don't unite, we kill each other.... happily i might add. asking for unity from a group whose sole purpose is to take each other out was your first mistake. you don't know the history of wormhole space, you don't know the people, the culture, the attitude of wormholers. with all of that...you ignored shelby? a high class gal gave you the time of day and you shunned her? she is like the wormhole queen and you ignore her? shame on you.... you have a total lack of manners."
"you didnt respond to me, hmmmpff.i have a list of your alts, will go check out your wh history **evil grin**"
"wow, that's like the sweetest thing ever to say, mista jones. it was kinda nice to come and see candi stickin' up for me though and putting her big, high-heeled yellow boot into mista cortex face like that.but yeah, what an ass. when i checked back today i was so excited to see what mista cortex thought about the stuff i asked. then ... i saw he just stepped right over me like garbage in the street, like a goon would some nullsec renter corp living under their opposition.essentially i felt like this, mista jones......... wow .... i'm no wormhole queen though, like it's totally hard enough for me to get respect even from my own sistas, being the youngest. it's always about them, you know, like \"woooo, dat ass on erica\" or stuff like \"dani dusette, best dusette\", but never nothin' about me. well, except for mista winthorp, he's really nice to me and stuff. am i even allowed to say his name at the moment though? i dunno ...and i think foedus like me too. he let me fly with him this one time, mista jones, and i called him senpai.[05:31:02] foedus latro > shelby, you can fly with me anytime[05:31:13] foedus latro > kohaiamazeballs. the things i get to see hanging out with my bigger sistas.you're pretty cute too, mista jones .... just sayin' ....and mista cortex i'm totally gonna tell foedus you was mean to me and ignored me and stuff. you betta run yo!!"
"i had a bashers at this and the idea is definitely workable. although i would need to learn the more complex relationship between sit and damage as i know it's not a nice linear relationship. more to follow when i get the workings out for the suggestion finalised and a few answers that i feel i need to refine it to a point that it becomes workable."
"so you clearly hate math and have no facility with it whatsoever. excellent answer, thank you!"
"unfortunatley, i did not pass a background security check on my account, and have to withdraw my campaign. hopefully this provoked some debate for you all, at least."
"well this is terrible news..."
"sorry to hear that. as a consolation prize the image of ccp checking api keys is amusing."
"\"allow worm hole dwellers to burn masses of fuel in order to keep a link open, without mass limit, long enough to burn out their neighbours (worm hole to worm hole only).\"sorry to hear about your background check. if i land up in csm, i will come pester you for another perspective."
"as someone who has had enjoyment of this game reinvigorated by the skulduggery of the one we call master, i must express my absolute disappointment in the narrow minded decision that ccp has made in blocking tf from running for csm x. in my opinion the wormhole community lost its second best possible voice running for the csm. not only has tf been a very active voice of the wh and autz community he has also succeeded where ccp has failed in introducing newer players into wormholes. do your player base a favor and readdress the decision ccp or i will protest by smart-bombing little scanny ships.............. you have been warned."
"a very short-sighted and disappointing decision, especially given some of the other wh candidates (or lack thereof).wish they would reconsider or come outright and say what the issue is."
"you can't pass the background check? this is ccp not the fbi. just how naughty were you?"
"sorry to hear it tf, you would have been second on my ballot behind corbexx. having read your blog i have an idea about what the problem was. does this prevent you from ever running or could you try again with another account? i think you'd make a great csm and so i hope there is still a chance, even if it's for csm 11 or 12 or 13..."
"i guess i'll reask this question since there was no answer because you disregarded someone as a high sec player. what is your opinion on the recent capital changes in phoebe?in addition based on your response to a previous question (below), how much of a time commitment do you plan on making to the csm over the next year if you are elected?"
"maybe next year dnsblack will run again."
"not a candidate thread. ergo, closed."
"you want to see whats behind the door here you go"
"funny thing is that when people talk about unfinished expansions, they always leave out incarna, which was not even deployed as planned, and thus the most unfinished expansion to date.as it was also the expansion that i was looking forward to ever since i started playing, i'm still not completely over my disappointment.thus, if they even only talked about implementing the cq upgrades that were supposed to be in there by now (customizable cq screen, for example), i would smile a little. my grin will likely only come back if the door actually opens, though."
"i hate jump fatigue... i'm sick of it. it makes me rage quit out of eve..."
"hello i started playing eve back in 2004 and have returned to playing after a break of 4-5 years.i must confess to find playing eve an increasing depressing experience.the activities of players exploiting other players seems to have increased over time to where it now seems to be most prevalent thing going on in game. it always as aspect of the game but now seems totally dominant, promoting nothing but paranoia vengeance and viciousness mirroring the worst of rl.the game only remains visually wonderfully, ccp please think about balancing content and practical gameplay to those of us who do want to play computer games just to be vindictive to other players."
"i am not exactly sure what you define as \"exploiting\" other players or what type of game you think eve online is. eve is a competitive pvp sandbox set is a war-torn futuristic dystopia where we the players fight for power, space and resources. the game is specifically designed to foster conflict between the players everywhere in new eden. that said, playing eve is not suppose to be a grim experience - you can have a lot of fun shooting you enemies (and friends too) in the face. see the latest from permaband for this sentiment in musical form. embrace the chaos and strife and the challenge it provides, or if you absolutely can't, then perhaps consider that this game isn't for you."
"i have played this game since 2004, i do not enjoy killing other players and when i started to play it was not an exclusive pvp game. has it now officially changed so if i do not want to pvp i am in the wrong game?"
"this what ccp says eve is currently:what is eve online?eve online is a massively multiplayer online game set 23,000 years in the future. as an elite spaceship pilot, you will explore, build, and dominate across a universe of over 7,000 star systems. sandbox gameplay and advanced skill-based progression provide you with a truly unique experience as you rise to power among the stars.the possibilities are endless in eve online: takes sides in factional warfare. join an alliance and wage epic battles for sovereignty over star systems. discover wormholes leading to unknown regions of space. uncover pirate outposts and lucrative resources hidden in the far reaches of the cosmos.it implies pvp exists it doesn't say its the main focus or obligatoryis this actually false information and pvp is the main and only respected activity in the game?"
"i'm really disappointed by how this game treats information regarding gameplay. you are supposed to know almost everything via outside tutorials, external wikis, and fan pages. they are useful and fine resources, but i find both unacceptable on the part of the developers to lazily leave the \"learning the game\" part to, for all intents and purposes, third party volunteers (the fans who make these sites); and also ineffective for the total newbie that tries the game without knowing any friends or external sites.i had this impression since long ago, but today i finally decided to post this after trying to follow the factional warfare path on my own. the amount of stuff you must figure out for yourself is even greater than for industry, planetary interaction, or general pvp.i don't know why information can be presented as follows:\"this is a caldari state facility. capture it by clearing all the opposing ships in it (if any) to help capture the system for your faction. only tech i frigates can enter this complex. you must remain closer than 20km to capture the facility for your faction. microwarpdrives work normally inside this deadspace pocket. you will not be able to warp from inside the complex to any point also inside. if you are fighting for the caldari, don't attack the npc ships, as they will help you. be careful, enemy capsuleers may enter the complex and fight you over it. allied capsuleers can help you capture the complex faster.\" simple, clear, and visually understandable. this is just an example. i know for a fact that the \"newbie unfriendliness\" of this game costs ccp and the community thousands of good players that never get past the trial period or the first subscription due to sheer frustration due to incidents like this one. the shameful, useless tutorial process must be also overhauled: forget the confusing \"wall of text\" and introduce explanatory pictures and bullet point type of sentences.to csm representatives that read this, please, raise this issue. it's more important than it seems. i'm sure we've lost tens of thousands of players due to this through the years.tl;dr: ccp needs to make gameplay information much more accessible to the learning player, both revising the approach it follows for the tutorials, and putting much more effort in the \"info\" windows (among other things)."
"fw complexes do not disable your mwd. ever. only certain missions (which you have to get from an agent) will do that.the reason you cannot find any information on \"what happened\" is because you appear to have lost against someone using multiple mechanics to his/her advantage.first... the facts.- your mwd was disabled- you say that it disabled your mwd at 18km- you say you were in a fw complex- it was an astero that killed you (i pulled it from your killboard)what does this say?a disabled mwd is obviously a warp scrambler's work. however, the astero is no garmur in that it does not have any bonus to warp disruption range (check the hull bonuses). and, as i said before, fw complexes do not shut down your mwd.now you can increase scram range with \"perfect\" warfare links... giving you ~11km range... and overheating a scram will push that out to ~13km... but that still falls short of the 18km you described.the only [semi-realistic] way to get close to the range you described is by using a faction warp scrambler... the domination and true sansha scrams coming the closest at ~17km range (with links and overheated)... however both of these modules easily cost 150 to 200 million isk (which strains believably)my conclusion is that maybe the guy rushed you a little quicker than you thought. asteros may not be the fastest ship out there... but they can accelerate much better than most.what does all this have to do with your idea?all this information was gained through first-hand experience, comparing stats/info in-game, and piecing together different mechanics.this is not something you can \"be aware of\" until it hits you... simply because there are so many things just like it.tldr; you lost against mechanics and tactics that are completely separate from faction warfare and could not be completely aware of until it was \"too late.\"now that you know... you can prepare accordingly in the future (remember, eve is a \"process game\"... there is no way to know \"everything\" beforehand)."
"it seems very clear from all recent game development tendencies that non pvps are only in the game as the bottom link in the food chain for all other players, they should expect to be trolled and any comment suggesting otherwise. in short if you play eve now and are not interested in pvp stopped deluding yourself and find a game you get a better experience in, eve will just be misery..."
"shooting mtus is the new can flipping. your standard issue carebear gets really upset if you shot their mtu."
"i broke my coalitions preferred csm ballot paper last year specifically for steve, and i will be doing it again this year unless he's on it by default (which tbh i wouldnt be surprised considering he's done an awesome job this year).csm isnt about public speaking and doing so with the red light of the record button blaring can be nerve racking, but you come across as approachable and friendly with a wealth of knowledge and a humble attitude, which only helps you there steve..good luck and you have my vote!"
"can i make a suggestion that a less controversial platform for those of us who do not play eve for pvp is the additional of new content which is not centered around pvp or in areas where pvp is likely in seconds once you decloak.eve has improved it fleet combat in the last 7 years or so, but it has always had an amazing potential in its economy implementation. would ccp countenance adding new content for non pvp or pve activites, the last time this seemed to happen was with pi and some small additions to exploration. this is not about dumbing down the game or making it risk free it is about giving some love to the areas of the game that at lot of us are attracted to in eve other than exploiting other players. why has ccp never widened trade possibilities much or fleshed out more npc companies opportunities for player content?"
"you're missing his point, actually. he's having too much fun watching you squirm to bother explaining it to you, or perhaps he doesn't feel you're worth his time, but i feel your pain so i'll give you a hint: it's all about your attitude. he reads your posts and listens to what you say, and he disagrees with it. do you have good ideas? maybe, sometimes definitely yes. is it presented in an unbiased fashion? far from it. your posts have been very self-centered and condescending. you talk like tora's platform is an affront to everything you hold dear. maybe you really feel that way, but bringing it into the discussion isn't going to help."
"and what exactly is tora's point?more to the point what is yours in quoting the above are you tora's spokesperson?in your opinion i am being very self-centered and condescending but that is just your opinion wrong nonetheless and nothing more, you are entitled to it as am i or anybody else. maybe you also should be a bit more humble in your approach and not take all that is said as an attack!"
"i should have thought that was obvious.you aren't worth consideration."
"actually it's just another example of a player criticising tora where he has put himself in a position to be criticised and judged. then rather than responding in a mature way, tora has tried to make a joke of it or simply insulted the players in question. this is not a new trait, and it's certainly not something i'd expect to see from someone running for a csm position. of course tora can't see this, because in his mind he's perfect and it's the rest of us that must be flawed."
"i'm just trying to give you some advice. you seem to be failing to get the kind of response you want out of tora. i've already discussed things with him in a civil manner and he has responded to me with seriousness. he doesn't take you seriously and i'm telling you why. you can continue along the path you are on and expect the same outcomes, or you can change what you are doing to change your outcome.i'm satisfied with what i'm getting, tora is apparently satisfied with what his responses are getting. there's my advice. take it or leave it."
"miners, mercs and gankers in hisec arent the only players in game. what about players who live in space where it is not possible to dock (like wormholes or hostile null) and uncloaking = death?"
"i used to fly in wh space for a few years and i understand they don't have much other options then to be cloaked in space. sometimes for longer periods to get fleets in the wh's. then you're not just sitting still without a good reason. in most cases you will be flying around, checking posses, statics etc. not sure if you'll sit still on grid for longer then 30min much ?and i am not saying you cant be cloaked..... i love cloaks i would be happy if it was just implemented for high-sec, where the risk of dying is way less."
"for example during preparation stages of operations we might spend weeks collecting intel on some holes, requiring you to be online and watch as much as you can. and every time you log on or off, you make yourself visible a potentially blow the whole operation. i cant risk being seen every time i want to check whether they are doing anything noteworthy. so with your \"solution\" we'd either have to push a button up to 47 times a day or not do intel at all. i dont see how either option improves the game.or we might be watching someone who is preparing to farm, which can take hours.and many pvpers multibox during large fight, placing their covops in various holes along the fight for getting warpins, collecting intel, combat scanning or looking for exfiltration routes if the hole gets collapsed or camped. these scouts are just sitting there, being handy in case they are needed. and if im flying a logi, i really dont want to be clicking random button on other screen just so my buzzard sitting in safespot doesnt die because im currently busy repping my fleetmates.so yeah... while i might sympathise with your desire to deal with afk miners in hisec, i dare say that ******* over wormholers (and others) in the process isnt the right way to do it. forcing players to click buttons that dont do anything isnt gonna bring fun to anyone. and people who simply cannot dock because the design of space doesnt allow them to do so, shouldnt be extra penalized for living in already hostile place. unless you propose ejecting afk players from stations and poses."
"i agree...."
"you're expecting a serious response when your \"criticism\" is nothing but thinly veiled character assassination."
"no, i'm not expecting a serious response to my honest review of his campaign. there's certainly no character assassination.another thing you've missed in your afk idea besides that it actually would affect other players like axioth has said, it would also do pretty much nothing to miners. a miner will be at the keyboard generally at least once every half hour, since they will need to empty their ship. if they are sitting there on grid for 3 hours afk, then they are accomplishing nothing, and so don't need to be forced to be active, and in fact logging them off would be beneficial to them. this is just further evidence of a fundamental lack of understanding of game mechanics outside of your own area.i suppose that is also just \"character assassination\" however."
"in real life we would call you a stalker"
"lol. mate, you're signing up for what is essentially a political position. people are going to criticise you for what you do and what you say, that doesn't make them stalkers just because you can't deal with that criticism.i note that you completely ignored the actual point of the post however, presumably because it proves that you have no idea what you are talking about."
"if this is fun to you it just shows what a waste of time your attempt at getting to the csm has been.if you think you could represent the population of eve with what you have written here then i feel sorry for you as nothing you have said would encourage people it would rather make them worried that you would be representing them.i have read a better candidate manifesto for this csm and the writter is only 14 years old you should read it and learn.unfortunately this is just further evidence of a fundamental lack of understanding of game mechanics outside of your own area and as such you should retract your application for your own standings in the community if you have any left."
"+1 corbexxhe has done much for the wspace community and i believe he can accomplish much more in the upcoming term"
"ce n'est pas ce que j'ai dit, merci de ne pas d<U+FFFD>former mes propos. j'ai dit \"et\" et non pas \"donc\". il n'y a pas de cause <U+FFFD> effet entre ce qui est <U+FFFD>crit avant et ce qui est <U+FFFD>crit entre parenth<U+FFFD>ses; en tous cas pas dans le sens o<U+FFFD> tu l'exprimes.1. un changement de conditions est faciles <U+FFFD> faire certes, mais les changements que tu souhaites, moi, si je ne les souhaite pas c'est parce qu'ils me paraissent absurdes et inconcevables (n'est pas synonyme d'irr<U+FFFD>alisables) pour des raisons que je n'ai pas la patience de t'exposer tellement elles me semblent <U+FFFD>videntes et le sont effectivement probablement, je n'en doute pas un seul instant, pour les 99% des joueurs du jeu.2. un changement de conditions est faciles <U+FFFD> faire certes (bis), mais ce n'est pas <U+FFFD>a qui va forcer qui que ce soit <U+FFFD> lier ses comptes alors qu'il n'y a aucun moyen ou presque de d<U+FFFD>tecter et de prouver (d<U+FFFD>tail qui n'en est pas un) que les comptes appartiennent <U+FFFD> une seule et m<U+FFFD>me personne sans s'immiscer dans la vie priv<U+FFFD>e des gens, ce que les d<U+FFFD>veloppeurs n'ont ni le temps ni assur<U+FFFD>ment la volont<U+FFFD> et encore moins le droit de faire. quant <U+FFFD> mettre en place une limitation <U+FFFD> un seul et unique personnage par compte, seule autre \"alternative\" qui pourrait <U+FFFD>tre un tant soit peu dissuasive (obligation, du coup, d'avoir un deuxi<U+FFFD>me compte payant pour contr<U+FFFD>ler des alts), je crois que, sauf erreur, <U+FFFD>a serait une premi<U+FFFD>re tr<U+FFFD>s malvenue dans le monde des mmo.3. je trouve donc ton id<U+FFFD>e absurde et inconcevable parce qu'irr<U+FFFD>alisable, entre autres raisons <U+FFFD>videntes comme d<U+FFFD>j<U+FFFD> dit, et non pas l'inverse. merci donc de ne pas d<U+FFFD>former mes propos encore une fois.edit2.1. la seule possibilit<U+FFFD> \"viable\" qui me vient d<U+FFFD>sormais <U+FFFD> l'esprit serait de rendre visible publiquement un \"identifiant\" unique par compte. l<U+FFFD>, d'accord, je ne vois pas ce qui emp<U+FFFD>cherait concr<U+FFFD>tement de mettre un tel syst<U+FFFD>me en place en pratique; si ce n'est plus que tr<U+FFFD>s fort probablement la perspective d'une vague massive de d<U+FFFD>sabonnements des joueurs, projection que je me permets d'avancer l<U+FFFD> aussi sans le moindre doute. parce qu'un joueur solo qui contr<U+FFFD>lerait un syst<U+FFFD>me stellaire seul, c'est l<U+FFFD> aussi d<U+FFFD>s le d<U+FFFD>part, <U+FFFD> la base, une id<U+FFFD>e absurde, tout simplement. t'as le droit de penser que je n'ai aucun arguments mais... je sais pas... moi <U+FFFD>a me parait tellement <U+FFFD>vident que je ne sais m<U+FFFD>me pas comment je pourrais te faire comprendre \"mon\" \"point de vue\". ce n'est juste tout simplement pas plausible ni d<U+FFFD>fendable*, et ce dans tous les sens du terme puisque tu en parles. je n'ai pas de meilleur argument.*sans introduire des m<U+FFFD>caniques bridant exag<U+FFFD>r<U+FFFD>ment et artificiellement le gameplay, si l'on consid<U+FFFD>re le terme dans ce sens l<U+FFFD>."
"ce n'est pas que les alts soient li<U+FFFD>s au m<U+FFFD>me compte qui pose un probl<U+FFFD>me. je pense sinc<U+FFFD>rement qu'il y a un risque r<U+FFFD>el que le jeu soit trop influenc<U+FFFD> par une petite poign<U+FFFD>e de joueurs avec d'importantes ressources et des comptes multiples.rendre cette influence visible pour permettre <U+FFFD> tous les joueurs d'en mesurer l'influence est la seule motivation de mon approche, m<U+FFFD>me si je suis bien conscient que les moyens de contr<U+FFFD>ler ces liens sont tr<U+FFFD>s limit<U+FFFD>s.avec un changement de termes et conditions dans ce sens, un joueur qui choisirait de ne pas publier tous ses alts se mettrait <U+FFFD> la merci d'autres joueurs au courant de ses diff<U+FFFD>rents comptes non d<U+FFFD>clar<U+FFFD>s.on introduirait ainsi au moins un risque qui n'existe pas aujourd'hui. eve est un jeu qui requiert des alts multiples, et je pense qu'avoir la possibilit<U+FFFD> de g<U+FFFD>rer trois alt avec un seul compte est normale pour ce jeu. je n'encourage aucunement de r<U+FFFD>duire le nombre d'alts par compte.entendu. on est d'accord de n'<U+FFFD>tre pas d'accord.est ce que tu sous-entends que la plupart des joueurs seraient donc des utilisateurs avec des alts qui n'auraient aucune viabilit<U+FFFD> si leur attachement au m<U+FFFD>me jouer devenait public?je ne pense pas que ce soit le cas.je suis un joueur solo, et je \"contr<U+FFFD>le\" un syst<U+FFFD>me par mon activit<U+FFFD>, dans un trou de ver.c'est pour le moment le seul type d'espace que je peux \"contr<U+FFFD>ler\" sans marqueur de souverainet<U+FFFD>. pourquoi ceux qui jouent solo comme je le fais ne pourrais pas faire de m<U+FFFD>me en nul sec? ce n'est pas tellement le contr<U+FFFD>le d'un syst<U+FFFD>me qui doit <U+FFFD>tre difficile pour un joueur solo, mais le maintien de ce contr<U+FFFD>le...."
"most of the items on that list were fixes to major bugs, exploits, or oversights that made piracy altogether too easy. highsec was originally intended to be pretty safe and the only reason it took so long for those changes to happen was because it took a long time for the playerbase to really take advantage of the issues on a large scale. also, i like (or rather, i hate) how your list conveniently ignores all changes made in the other direction.so here's what really has happened:* concord response times adjusted for the increase in prevalence of highsec ganks* sec status penalties for ganks increased due to the discovery of easy ways to raise it again* insurance removed for gankers, tornado added. expensive ganks retain similar cost, cheap ganks still cheap.* barge and exhumer hp buffed because they were paper-thin and were getting demolished by 1 destroyer even when tanked. now it actually costs either isk or players to gank an expensive ship.* ventures added, which have built-in warp stabs with full cost to slots, cpu, targeting range, and scan resolution--so it's a less flexible frigate.* baiters can only re-ship in a combat-flagged orca, to prevent orca pilot from being combat-flagged for not doing anything.* war declaration mechanics made to allow corporations to attack others freely in highsec after paying a fee.* war declaration costs increased in balance pass after they are shown to be too cheap.* unlimited allies can join a defender or attacker - this is (obviously) used almost exclusively by attackers* can flipping gives suspect flag now, instead of combat only with one person - duels added for those who don't want suspect status* ganglinks can't be used inside pos shield > allegedly mining foreman links can, but i find this hard to believe. can anyone confirm?* drone bug fix breaks exploit that allowed a player to flag another player for combat merely because the player had drones out* allegedly corps can disallow free shooting of corp members. i never heard of this.so with all of these changes, we see a lot of rebalancing of highsec combat, but overall one very strong detail rings clear: highsec is much more dangerous now with wardecs than it ever was without them. the rest of that stuff (which isn't really strongly in favor of the defenders so much as balance retention) is insignificant in comparison."
"mining links are the only ones that work in a shield. all others won't work. the intercorp aggression flag is coming with tiamat. it plugs a major security hole and it's made to encourage more social play instead of countless alt corps or just sitting in an npc corp. but feyd here isn't interested in balance, he just wants easy kills by any means available. there are still plenty of complete bullshit mechanics that ccp either lacks the will or technical skill to fix. *cough* bumping, hyperdunking, -10's still active in highsec *cough* so don't bother playing poor downtrodden victim around here. it won't hold water."
"in addition to this there have been other changes which have pushed it the other way, for example the corp hangar changes, allowing orcas to drop loot from ther fleet hangars. no changes which were beneficial to his playstyle make it onto his graph. also for wardecs, you used to be able to dec shield yourself, making it ridiculously expensive to declare war. you also use to be able to shed wars, and now can't do that."
"mike,assuming someone wanted you, steve, corbexx, and sugar to get re-elected, what do you think the order would need to be on the ballot to ensure maximum success?"
"yeesh, that is a really tough question. trying to answer it without being self-serving is even harderso let me tell you how i am thinking it.visible support currently in effect is the key along with how the election algorithm is worked. we all need some #1 vote slots to make it past the first winnowing and pass throughs. so if you had multiple accounts i would suggest you shuffle them a bit to spread the love.that being said i would say that, right now my money is on sugar and corbexx for being almost sure things. corbexx has a solid and supportive constituency and i challenge you to find anybody saying anything negative about sugar. i expect to see her on a lot of null ballots as well as the low support. steve and i are the odd ducks. neither of us have a huge support block behind us and as a result are more at risk. if you listened to my interview with cap stable you will know steve was who i chose as the one person i would like to see get in (besides myself)so to keep it from looking self serving steve, me, sugar, corbexxbut there are lots of other good candidates that deserve to be on that list as well. i am going to hack my way through the final list in the next few days and see who i like over alloh, and thank you for putting me on the same list as those other three, i consider that a high compliment.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"i agree with the intercorp aggression flag though i am a bit disappointed about it. but the mining links working inside the shield is inexcusable and i disagree strongly with that! it should be fixed.mike, i thought you were a shoe-in. you might get a few less votes because of the high number of folks getting interested in other candidates, but i highly doubt you won't win a slot. steve will probably get in, too, he's got popularity. but you're right, corbexx and sugar kyle are total shoe-ins."
"hi there,some questions because it's campaign now :1- what would be your word in csm x for wis ?2- for project legion as an important element for eve online ?3- for valkyrie so that it could be linked with eve online ?you want to be the voice of newbies.which one ? english speaking only ? how would you represent other language community and how do you do this each day in brave collective ?sorry for this inquiry.your application is interesting. so, we want to know a little more about you before voting.thanks and best regards."
"+1 for sugar. if i could i would clone her and vote for both of them."
"your ad is here. good luck."
"i do enjoy this bit..\"they are too cowardly to look for combat in low sec or even faction warfare, because they might actually be shot at. essentially, in my opinion, a cancer to the game. a cancer because every action they take with that mindset does a tremendous amount of damage to the game without ever adding anything positive to it. again, cancerous cowards.\""
"its going to depend how sov 3.0 shakes out. changing them before that wouldn't make sense. the supercarriers role has been to be the ultimate structure grinder. the titan the ultimate expression of damage. so that's what these ships have been defined as thus far. if i were to take a stab in the dark however. the supercarrier i am not sure at this time what to do. i think giving the titan a bigger sma would be great for the shipclass. scriptable ddd's have been talked about for years. really its hard to give a good answer here without knowing how sov and other changes are. hopefully with your vote ill be able to get in take a look and really start to start having that conversation with the community and ccp."
"thanks for the support keep the questions coming."
"bobmon here is your ad."
"i don't know if it's strictly necessary to convince new players and/or carebears to leave hisec. hisec has a unique environment that you can't find anywhere else. i think a healthier approach would be to ensure hisec is fun, so that people don't have a \"need\" to leave it. from there players should be given information and direction about the rewards... and risks... of other areas of space.that said, i think the prospect and the sisters of eve ships were great moves in the general direction of deep space encouragement. these cool, exploration-focused ships basically begged players to take them into spooky space, and i can tell you i've seen many of all of them floating around wormhole and nullsec systems. creating more accessible, cheap ships with bonuses that aid in scanning, navigation, and cloaking all help the little guy get into and out of dangerous areas more reliably (with practice)."
"this will be the very first message that i leave on these forums.dear mister chance - in real life, i am a young man struck with an unfortunate medical issue that cannot be cured or overcome, and throughout my life this has caused me a fair amount of grief and depression. spending an awful lot of time alone at home in between of hospital visits, i was constantly bored with life, and i found it really hard to meet people and make friends.so i browsed the inter-webs for a game of social nature. eve online was mentioned frequently as not only a social game, but as a whole world separate to the real one we all live in where the players controlled their own fate. intrigued by the idea of it all, but far from convinced that the eve universe was all that it made itself out to be, i went onto youtube to do further investigation. that's where you come in!i quickly came across your videos and i thought they were hilarious. i watched every single one of them, even though i sometimes barely understood what was going on since my knowledge of the game was non-existent, and i was thoroughly amused. seeing what crazy adventures you were able to have in the game and the interactions you had with other players (or customers!) was what convinced me to download the game and throw myself into it. this was about two months ago now.i am still very much a newbie. i learn tons of new things every day. and i make a lot of mistakes. however, since i started playing the game, i feel an awful lot less bored with my life. i met great people to talk to, and i feel like the whole experiences has greatly affected my mood in a positive way. for the first time in many years, i got really \"into\" something. for that, i will be eternally grateful.i will never be healthy. nor will i ever have a \"normal\" life. but at least, thanks to you, i have a chance to be happy.you have my vote, and the first kill i get in my purifier that i just purchased a few days ago will be dedicated in your honor."
"hey sataric, i really don't know what to say... i will work as hard as possible to live up to your expectations and fight for this community, whether it is on the csm or through my stupid videos!"
"how many hours per week do you plan on committing to the csm if elected for the next year?"
"no, thank you!"
"thorics a stand up gentleman! has great depth and breadth of knowledge of the game both mechanically and sociologically and above all has a proven track record of good people and negotiatory skills. these, in my honest opinion, are more required and necessary than many people may think when it comes to being on the csm, as the recent eve media fiasco of funky bacon has proven.good luck my friend!"
"i have an issue with you anti ishtar stance. i love mine for l4s and being able to use an orca as a mobile base.a machariel isn't going to be the same."
"cap stable interview fresh off the rss feed."
"i know that the standings thingy is a problem and probably a old code relic from way back that no one dares to touch. i have brought up the problem with ccp before and i hope something can be reworked here. there is also the thing where neutral guys go into fw sites and you get a sec status hit for defending them. i really think that they should give a suspect timer on fw plex entry. it doesn't have to be 15 minutes just as long as you are inside the plex. capital class warfare: i am not really experienced here at all but some things i have read was swapping dread and carrier costs around and i kinda like this since stuff dying > stuff being alive. but like i said this is not really something i know anything about to make a comment that could be considered good. i'd rather listen and see what ccp suggests and comment on that/comment on what other members think about this. anchored bubbles: first i would love for ccp to finish working on the many bubbles = 1 large bubble thing they showed at fanfest. because that **** was so cool. as for 100 large bubbles unguarded on every gate in 5j direction from your bear haven. **** that. it's one of the reasons i moved into thera. having wormholes helps getting past that **** fast in a battleship. i think these provide way to much safety and no one is going to wast ages sitting there killing them when new ones will be up instantly when you leave. shooting players is funnier then shooting structures as well. one idea i support regarding the bubbles is"
"thanks for the response gorski. i hate to say it, but you'll be on my ballots."
"+1 for getting rid of null systems littered with large bubbles. i support gorski"
"thanks for the response gorski"
"well looking forward to the csm x wormhole talk later tonight - [url]"
"the wormhole csmx talk is about to happen. talk to the candidates."
"good platform to work with. will be watching."
"domanark sat down with myself for an interview on cap stable, listen here:"
"i think everything in eve is about balance. are subcapital fleets without (super)capital support viable? in virtually every circumstance the answer is yes. we see all the time that subcapitals kill caps, supers, and titans, yet if anyone suggests that (super)capitals be able to kill subs they are shouted down. as mentioned before i think dreads are in a pretty good place. they have a purpose, to deal lots of damage, and that damage can be applied to structures, caps, and subcaps. the balance to them is if they want to do any real damage they are then incapable of receiving any remote reps. now look at (super)carriers. i think one of the biggest flaws that needs to be looked at is that they can do everything at once. fit properly, and with enough friends, you can apply dps, provide reps and cap, and receive reps and cap. something as simple as making them make a choice on which they want to do instead of being able to do all at once would bring more balance to the game, but would be a better solution than continuing to nerf them so that they are defenseless against subs that are still capable of killing them."
"\"hi i'm i just joined this game yesterday and i would like to run for csm.\"this campaign is laughably bad."
"thats it, time to evict ccp."
"withdrawing from the race with a sad heart. good luck to the many."
"you have my votee"
"why waste your time? the is an uneeded middle man, don't kid yourself into believing the matters in anyway shape or form, ccp will change eve to the way they want, not what a handful of unimportant middlemen want"
"as some of you read via twitter, i have to withdraw my candidature this year. long story short: i had two turbulent weeks at work caused by some changes in our company. this leaned to more responsibility (which will give me less time for the next month's).now i had to change the order of my priorities. i really couln't foresee this.i think, i will try it again next year, after everything settles down. thanks for everyone who supported me and sorry for maybe disappointing you."
"yes, it was.you always were."
"i started playing back in 2009... and the vets that took me in and trained me have been playing since the game began.from the stories they have told me... it has always been this way. the differences between then and now are...- more people are playing... meaning more people are experiencing the same kinds of \"conflict\" that people did back in the \"old days\" (and by extension, talking/yelling about it).- more people are playing... meaning there are more people causing \"conflict.\"- more people are playing... and there is less \"empty space\" (especially in high-sec) where people can just hide and avoid contact with others (which is a good thing, because it breeds more conflict***).- (in my opinion) many people who have been recently joining the game seem to have a much lower tolerance towards gameplay revolving around \"conflict\" and \"interference.\"as far as avoiding ship-on-ship pvp is concerned... it is possible... hell, there are still people who have been playing for years and only recently have had their self-contained \"bubble\" of gameplay interfered with... who then come wailing on the forums about it.some of the tricks to do this are...- understanding the aggression mechanics of the game. there are a surprising amount of people who don't understand docking games, remote repairs, and not to shoot at a ninja looter in a pve ship.- understanding how pvpers and other \"undesirable people\" think and operate. what better way to avoid getting blown up or have stuff stolen from you than to understand/experience how these people perform their trade?note: this whole point can be best summed up with this phrase; \"make yourself a more undesirable target compared to the guy next to you.\"- being prepared. pvpers are not \"superhuman\" players with access to ships, modules, tactics, and mechanics that no one else does. every tool, tactic, and mechanic they use to their advantage can be used against them or to avoid them outright.*** note: eve is special in that its in-game economic health (and by extension, the health of the non-combat aspects of the game) are dependent on conflict and destruction (just the same way that conflict and destruction are dependent on the non-combat aspects of the game).less things destroyed... less isk and minerals are spent and/or trade hands... because there is less demand for replacements... which causes deflation of product prices... which means less profits... which means there is less incentive to harvest, build, haul, and/or trade.every ship that blows up is more cash in the pockets of miners, industrialists, haulers, and traders... and if that ship happens to be a competitor for said miner/industrialist/hauler/trader... that means greater profits.welcome to the machine that is eve... the ultimate \"rat race.\""
"if eve is getting sicker, maybe we should send it to a doctor?"
"actually they do explicitly say that pvp is central to the game. from the new pilot faq:there are ways to do (almost) only pve in this game, but there are always done against the backdrop of competitive pvp sandbox. if you really only want to mine and build stuff, you can but you will have to arrange for protection with some pvp players as part of an larger organization. if you forgo your defense, but do not find someone else to protect you, you will be an easy target for larger, more aggressive groups. however missioning in highsec is pretty isolated from the sandbox in that there is much inbuilt protection from unwanted aggression, so by following a few rules you are unlikely to be affected much by others in the sandbox.eve is not sick or getting sicker - it was born this way. there are other space games out there that will allow you to play without interacting or being affected by others. eve's sandbox is however quite unique and means that pretty much everything you do is in competition with other players - the ore you mine devalues my ore, when the module you undercut me on the market sells, that is isk that i don't get, and so on. this, and the real risk of losing your assets, provides much meaning and excitement to your game play that isn't present in other, themepark mmos. it may not be everyone's cup of tea however."
"i've played since may 2004 and it's always been a pvp game. (not this char)you either didn't truly play, stayed in some back water system and did nothing but mine, or your memory is wrong.when i started there were far less online at any one time, so the former is likely.eve is pvp centric. almost every aspect of the game, revolves around competition and conflict. as more players have joined, it's merely gone to highlight that more.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"i really think your 4-5 year break has skewed your memories as to how this game was played. you rememberd all the fun times you had, but seemingly forgot all the bad times that came with them."
"i stand corrected; edited the original post to eliminate the invalid example. however, that doesn't invalidate the main point of my post: a problem with how information is presented in this game."
"because researching is hard? can't use google to find the answers to your questions? can't ask a more experienced player what's going on?players have put thousands of hours of work into all the third party software, tutorials, faqs, and everything else used to learn about the game. what you're asking is for ccp to throw away all that work donated to the community, and re-do all of it, simply because you can't be assed to go do some research on your own. if you want the game developers to hold your hand and sing lulabys to you as you blissfully traverse the game, then you're in the wrong place."
"i know i'm in the wrong place to be a newbie. that is what i'm trying to change.i don't know any other game that can't be learn either doing the tutorials, or reading the manual. here the tutorials are a mess, just a collection of poor, too simple missions, that don't really teach you anything. and there is no manual either.a game should be about enjoying it, not about researching how to play it and about gameplay facts that sometimes seem hidden on purpose."
"i remember having the same thoughts as you as i started playing. ccp is very bad in documenting things. they usually release a devblog for a feature but don't update the wiki page of the same feature. if the feature is changed afterwards, the devblog is not updated either.without someone telling you things you usually end up with half correct information about game mechanics. it goes so far that players picked up devblog notions for features instead calling them by the lore name. (player owned station vs starbase etc)the client got a little better in telling you things. show info of items is now a lot better for example, but overall not much changed in the last ~5 years where i played - you have to get used to it sadly."
"exactly what i mean. although this character is new, i'm a veteran of the game. only after going through the new player process again after so many years, with as much knowledge as i have now about the game, i realize how difficult it is for a truly new player; how much information he is missing due to a shameful tutorial and how hard it is to learn the game without constantly doing something wrong and learning from fatal mistakes (and that's assuming you ever get to know exactly what happened, which again, you don't).in the current state, it is very easy for a new player to just leave due to sheer frustration after a couple of losses where you don't know anything about what's going on or how you were supposed to do things properly.this game needs a serious overhaul of tutorials to provide more meaningful information, in a more readable and clear way, and forcing you to practice these concepts with properly designed scenarios, not the current lazy implementation (npc surrendering because he was webbed, without actually seeing what a webber does? why warp-disrupt an npc that will not leave the area anyway?). allow the missions to be failed and repeated until the player executes them correctly. explain with graphs and pictures complex matters like tracking, probing, electronic warfare...i find it hard to explain why ccp has put so little effort trough the years in a critical part of the game such as this one. only god knows how many players have we lost due to a poor tutorial, very limited localization, and the general \"obscurity\" of the game, but i personally know a few of them, people i know for a fact they would enjoy the game if they had made through the initial stages and the language barrier (in my case, spanish)."
"i hope that you all had a great vd and the health clinics won't be hard pressed."
"hi steve, i am happy last time i have voted for you with all my 7 accounts. but now i want to hear about your feeling, since you define yourself a small scale t2 highsec producer.you have written, some posts ago, about conflict tweaking, that the holistic point of view you one has to adopt has to protect high sec people by not going elsewhere (or more realistictly quitting). i agree.but then you have written that in your opinion industry is good. there is a feeling out there, instead, that in highsec it's basically disgregarded. i am (was) a pretty big hs manufacturer, able to run over 250 inventions each 25 hours (just to define intensive), and what i actually see is that:1. inventions is easier (not unhappy with that, ui has had nice improvements) -> lower entry level2. manufacturing processes in hs are no longer profitablethe second point deserves an explaination.production times went down -> more production in the same time unit -> more supplyhs industry costs unreasonably went up -> thinner marginswith this given, it's clear (and not unpublicized) that ccp wants to push people in 0.0.but there is a point that always made me crazy. we are not talking about a free to play game with power items where who wants can spend money to achieve more, we are talking about a game where everyone pays, but the ones that don't want / can't afford a given lifestyle can quitely die.plexes prices go up, margins are thinner and hisec lifestyle can barely tank this. would you define this balanced ?i was not after an easy industry (never made it in the easy), there would not be competition, and when years ago people wanted to scale up, they could. more accounts, more bandwidth, more profits, because of a hugely bigger effort.today also that approach, in hs, is useless.since you are an hisec industrialist, what's your feeling with that ?regards, bm"
"some really good articles have been published that really extol the importance of platforms like mine."
"funny, then, how you almost automatically reject questions regarding your own platform, and even reject suggestions to improve it from well-meaning people (where i count at least myself in the former group, and nariya kentaya in the latter), and choose to lump it all together in this manner (from p. 12):it's remarkable how, on one hand, you cry for more transparency and authenticity, while on the other hand reject questions into your own platform and gives an inauthentic view of yourself, your history, your abilities and your platform.now, this in itself is a very good reason to question your candidacy, but when you make it so obvious that your one shtick is csm reform, and then nothing else, i can assure you that pretty much anyone currently running for csm can do that job, and many of them have actual agendas outside their own ego and misunderstanding of the election process.when you decide to stop being a joke candidate and answer questions regarding your platform, and when you decide to adopt a platform with relevance to the game rather than an electorate that doesn't like you, people might think better of you. currently, your slogan ofmight fit you, but we have a number of csm candidates whom we know and who aren't devils. you simply fall short compared to the competition, and frankly, you'd currently fall short even compared to no competition at all.of course, someone regarding themselves as a devil likely won't attract votes.either because it shows how much ego and how little sense you have when you make that comparison, or because it's an accurate comparison and nobody would vote for a devil."
"okay, your platform si transparency, what else is it? specifcally what other problems do you seek to fix or bring to ccp's attention, and what suggestions do you propose would make good soltuions?i ask this because there are several csm platforming \"transparency\" but none of them use it as their primary platform, most of them are concerned with ingame material, which is important, after all, what good do glass walls have if theres nothing inside to see?"
"xenuria when are you going to answer questions? you can not expect people to vote for someone that is silent in his own csm thread."
"thank you for stopping by my thread!you raise some interesting points... and i am going to have to think about that.but my initial, not really thought about, emotional response would be something along the lines of: isn't the thing about eve that it is a sandbox, with player generated content... and shouldn't ccp stay as much out of it as possible, and enjoy what we do with each other?as a really non-pvper i can appreciate the feeling of \"lack of content\" (especially on weekends when there are really no suitable freighter contracts for me, where i want to go). if you are not pvping sometimes it feels like you have to struggle to find something to do. but if it is too much, i don't think that for eve the right answer is \"more content\" but rather \"try another game as well\"."
"just tell me if you need a hug man. it's ok."
"a vote for tora is a vote for freedom and fashion sense, i fully support him. don't be rused by the haters and posers, tora is the man."
"en ce qui me concerne, tu l'auras bien compris, je pense qu'il n'y aucun probl<U+FFFD>me avec la possibilit<U+FFFD> d'avoir des alts sans que l'on puisse les identifier comme tels, que ce soit sur un seul compte ou sur des comptes multiples. je ne fais donc que d<U+FFFD>crire d'<U+FFFD>ventuelles nouvelles r<U+FFFD>gles ou m<U+FFFD>caniques qui permettraient d'aller dans la direction que tu souhaites pour mettre en <U+FFFD>vidence la difficult<U+FFFD>, pour ne pas dire l'impossibilit<U+FFFD>, de les appliquer.autrement dit, j'essaie simplement de te d<U+FFFD>montrer qu'au-del<U+FFFD> du fond sur lequel nous ne sommes pas d'accord et sur lequel je t'assure encore une fois qu'<U+FFFD> peu pr<U+FFFD>s 99% des joueurs ne le seront jamais avec toi, la forme est en pratique de toute fa<U+FFFD>on difficilement applicable.tu sembles d'ailleurs en avoir conscience <U+FFFD> la vue de ton dernier post. n<U+FFFD>anmoins, tu <U+FFFD>cris: je ne comprends pas. tu parles donc de d<U+FFFD>nonciation/d<U+FFFD>lation? c'est donc <U+FFFD>a que tu veux mettre en place?peu importe si les r<U+FFFD>gles sont impossibles <U+FFFD> appliquer directement, elles permettraient au moins d'avoir une base sur laquelle s'appuyer pour d<U+FFFD>noncer ceux que l'on sait (ou que l'on pense savoir) utiliser des alts non d<U+FFFD>clar<U+FFFD>s?tu ne peux pas <U+FFFD>tre s<U+FFFD>rieux, ou alors tu n'as pas vraiment r<U+FFFD>fl<U+FFFD>chi <U+FFFD> la question autant de temps qu'il aurait fallu...d'une, comment les d<U+FFFD>nonciateurs seraient-ils sens<U+FFFD>s prouver leur accusations?de deux, qui, crois-tu, a le temps ou m<U+FFFD>me l'envie de s'occuper de ce genre de chose, que ce soit du c<U+FFFD>t<U+FFFD> des d<U+FFFD>nonciateurs ou de ceux qui seraient sens<U+FFFD>s v<U+FFFD>rifier la chose.de trois, encore une fois, <U+FFFD>a ne peut que forc<U+FFFD>ment finir par une atteinte <U+FFFD> la vie priv<U+FFFD>e.ce n'est pas possible, j'ai d<U+FFFD> mal te comprendre...___quant <U+FFFD> <U+FFFD>a:je ne sous-entends rien du tout. j'affirme que la tr<U+FFFD>s grande majorit<U+FFFD> des joueurs, s'ils ne profitent peut-<U+FFFD>tre pas forc<U+FFFD>ment de l'anonymat appliqu<U+FFFD> par d<U+FFFD>faut (!) au lien qu'il y a entre leurs alts (ce qui n'est de toute fa<U+FFFD>on clairement pas le cas justement) ne souhaiteront et n'accepteront jamais qu'on leur enl<U+FFFD>ve ce choix, cette possibilit<U+FFFD> de garder l'anonymat du lien. c'est un <U+FFFD>l<U+FFFD>ment important du jeu (qui n'est d'ailleurs pas exclusif <U+FFFD> eve) et qui est en place depuis maintenant plus de 11 ans. cela ne changera pas et ne changera jamais sans que cela ne g<U+FFFD>n<U+FFFD>re un scandale sans pr<U+FFFD>c<U+FFFD>dent, crois-moi; personne* ne veut <U+FFFD>a!*enfin si, au moins une manifestement, et s<U+FFFD>rement quelques tr<U+FFFD>s rares autres du coup faut imaginer...___pour terminer, pour ce qui est du contr<U+FFFD>le des syst<U+FFFD>mes, je ne suis <U+FFFD>videmment toujours pas d'accord mais je n'ai pas envie d'approfondir le sujet davantage. non, ce que tu dis me semble absurde encore une fois. mais bref, restons en l<U+FFFD>."
"quel(s) avantage(s) cela te procure-t-il en jeu?la perception du payer-pour-gagner est mortelle pour un jeu sur la longue dur<U+FFFD>e, eve est un jeu de (tr<U+FFFD>s) longue duree qui est compl<U+FFFD>tement different de tout autre mmo. \"gagner eve\" c'est exercer une influence importante sur les <U+FFFD>venements du jeu. c'est une des raisons du bannissement r<U+FFFD>cent des flottes individuelles g<U+FFFD>r<U+FFFD>es par duplication de touches, maintenant interdites, et c'est une bonne chose pour le jeu.ton argumentation est en fait en faveur du payer-pour-gagner sous une forme plus insidieuse, puisque pour le moment totalement invisible. je peux aujourd'hui avoir vingt, trente ou cinquante comptes anonymes et influencer le jeu de fa<U+FFFD>on totalement opaque pour la majorit<U+FFFD> des joueurs.je n'ai pas de probl<U+FFFD>mes particuliers avec le fait de tirer un signal d'alarme pour d<U+FFFD>clencher une investigation pour ceux qui trichent (et je suis bien conscient de la connotation que tu introduis sciemment en parlant de d<U+FFFD>nonciation... c'est un stigmate principalement franco-fran<U+FFFD>ais). aujourd'hui le partage de comptes est interdit par les termes et conditions, et est donc une forme de triche que ccp peut sanctionner. mon objectif est de rendre le fait d'avoir de multiples comptes non declar<U+FFFD>s comme appartenant au m<U+FFFD>me joueur une diff<U+FFFD>rente forme de triche. je ne vois pas ceci comme un probl<U+FFFD>me diff<U+FFFD>rent des investigations possibles aujourd'hui sur le partage de comptes...il est bien <U+FFFD>vident que les joueurs suffisemment ais<U+FFFD>s pour se permettre des comptes multiples cr<U+FFFD>eront un scandale. je ne les repr<U+FFFD>sentent absolument pas, et en fait en exposant cette facette du jeu, je suis bien conscient de leur d<U+FFFD>plaire fortement. ils ont la main mise sur le jeu d'une fa<U+FFFD>on qui n'est pas li<U+FFFD>e a leur fa<U+FFFD>on de jouer mais aux resources auxquelles ils ont acc<U+FFFD>s pour influencer le jeu par l'interm<U+FFFD>diaire de multiples acomptes anonymes. je souhaite simplement que cette influence devienne plus visible.par exemple, le vote pour le csm devrait <U+FFFD>tre fait avec un vote par joueur, et non pas un vote par personnage."
"j'ai dit que cela ne me posait pas probl<U+FFFD>me, pas que j'en profitais personnellement. tu t'adresses pour le coup <U+FFFD> la mauvaise personne puisque je \"dirige\" une one-man corp dont tous les alts sont li<U+FFFD>s via un lien (une image) dans leurs biographies, ce que je t'invite <U+FFFD> v<U+FFFD>rifier. alors ok, leur identit<U+FFFD> compl<U+FFFD>te n'est pas r<U+FFFD>v<U+FFFD>l<U+FFFD>e puisque il n'y a que leurs initiales, mais c'est tout comme. ca ne laisse que peu de place au doute et le tout est facilement v<U+FFFD>rifiable avec les outils que tu connais, j'ose imaginer.ce que je disais en revanche, c'est que bien que je n'en profite pas personnellement, je ne veux n<U+FFFD>anmoins pas qu'on nous enl<U+FFFD>ve la possibilit<U+FFFD> de cr<U+FFFD>er des alts \"inconnus au bataillon\" si on le souhaite. alors certes, j' ai de mon c<U+FFFD>t<U+FFFD> d<U+FFFD>j<U+FFFD> 6 alts reli<U+FFFD>s sur 2 comptes et donc plus de place pour le faire, mais l<U+FFFD> est un autre \"probl<U+FFFD>me\".maintenant, pour ce qui est du reste, il faudrait savoir ce que tu veux et ce qui te pose probl<U+FFFD>me.quel est le rapport entre l'anonymat du lien possible entre les alts actuellement et la dimension p2w dont tu parles?soit le probl<U+FFFD>me est l'anonymit<U+FFFD> du lien pour des raisons tels que l'espionnage et d'autres \"magouilles de traitres\" d<U+FFFD>coulant de cette possibilit<U+FFFD> et dans ce cas ta proposition est plus ou moins coh<U+FFFD>rente (m<U+FFFD>me si non souhaitable encore une fois) mais, du coup, la possibilit<U+FFFD> de pouvoir poss<U+FFFD>der plusieurs comptes ou non n'a aucune influence puisque tout cela reste possible avec un seul et m<U+FFFD>me compte et n'implique donc aucune dimension p2w.soit le probl<U+FFFD>me est la possibilit<U+FFFD> de pouvoir contr<U+FFFD>ler plusieurs personnages <U+FFFD> la fois <U+FFFD> travers plusieurs comptes et dans ce cas l'anonymit<U+FFFD> du lien n'a strictement aucune influence et aucun rapport avec la chose puisque g<U+FFFD>n<U+FFFD>ralement ce genre de pratiques implique des actions coordonn<U+FFFD>es des alts qui se trouvent dans un seul et m<U+FFFD>me \"camp\" et dont le lien est g<U+FFFD>n<U+FFFD>ralement plus qu'<U+FFFD>vident.soit c'est les deux, mais l<U+FFFD> aussi, encore une fois, ce n'est pas le retrait de toute fa<U+FFFD>on inapplicable de l'anonymit<U+FFFD> du lien qui va lutter contre les multi-comptes. au contraire, tu p<U+FFFD>naliseras davantage les joueurs <U+FFFD> compte unique qui ne pourront m<U+FFFD>me plus avoir des alts \"inconnus au bataillon\" en plus de ne pas avoir les moyens de les diriger simultan<U+FFFD>ment.tu n'es donc absolument pas coh<U+FFFD>rent!et concernant le bannissement de la pratique de la duplication des touches, je pense en effet que c'est une tr<U+FFFD>s bonne chose parce que l<U+FFFD> <U+FFFD>a va trop loin puisque cela s'apparente <U+FFFD> une forme d'automatisation, mais en dehors de <U+FFFD>a, je t'arr<U+FFFD>te tout de suite avec tes id<U+FFFD>es saugrenues un tantinet parano: le jeu n'est absolument pas majoritairement influenc<U+FFFD> par un petit nombre de personnes aux nombreux comptes. t'es compl<U+FFFD>tement <U+FFFD> c<U+FFFD>t<U+FFFD> de la plaque tellement cette pratique d'avoir de nombreux comptes (plus de deux ou trois je dirais) est sans aucun doute marginale. et non, \"gagner eve\" ce n'est pas \"exercer une influence importante sur les <U+FFFD>v<U+FFFD>nements du jeu\". c'est probablement de l<U+FFFD> que viennent aussi tes id<U+FFFD>es compl<U+FFFD>tement d<U+FFFD>plac<U+FFFD>es. chacun <U+FFFD> ses objectifs bien personnels qu'il partage plus ou moins avec d'autres dans eve, mais il n'y a pas d'objectif ultime commun <U+FFFD> tous comme tu sembles le penser. c'est manifestement ton objectif, mais ce n'est pas le cas de tout le monde.pour terminer, quant <U+FFFD> <U+FFFD>a: non, ce n'est certainement pas un stigmate principalement franco-fran<U+FFFD>aise. je ne suis d'ailleurs ni fran<U+FFFD>ais, ni ne vis en france. c'est le contraire, au contraire, qui est typiquement am<U+FFFD>ricain et un point pr<U+FFFD>cis sur lequel la grande majorit<U+FFFD> du reste du monde ne souhaite pas calquer le fonctionnement de leurs soci<U+FFFD>t<U+FFFD>s; et c'est tant mieux. mais bref, <U+FFFD>vitons de transformer cet <U+FFFD>change en un d<U+FFFD>bat \"socio-politique\".enfin bon, voil<U+FFFD>, je pense de toute fa<U+FFFD>on en rester l<U+FFFD> pour ma part. je pense avoir pris suffisamment de temps pour exprimer clairement \"ma\" fa<U+FFFD>on de penser contre laquelle, je te le pr<U+FFFD>dis, tu vas sans aucun doute te heurter encore maintes et maintes fois, c'est peu dire, <U+FFFD> travers les autres joueurs durant ta campagne.bonne suite, bonne chance et bon courage! o7"
"c'est en effet un probl<U+FFFD>me que je souhaite souligner au travers de ce point particulier de ma campagne, et l'espionnage deviendrait plus difficile, mais pas impossible, si tous les accomptes <U+FFFD>taient li<U+FFFD>s publiquement <U+FFFD> leur joueur.je n'ai jamais sugg<U+FFFD>r<U+FFFD> que contr<U+FFFD>ler plusieurs personnages sur plusieurs comptes <U+FFFD>tait un probl<U+FFFD>me. c'est l'anonymat actuel entre ces personnages qui l'est <U+FFFD> mes yeux.merci <U+FFFD> toi pour ce d<U+FFFD>bat civil et raisonable, qui souligne nos diff<U+FFFD>rences. fly safe o7"
"c'est bien ce que je dis, tu n'es pas coh<U+FFFD>rent. si c'est l'anonymat qui te pose probl<U+FFFD>me, et uniquement cela, que viennent faire l<U+FFFD> tes propos sur la notion de p2w favorisant les joueurs fortun<U+FFFD>s?l'anonymat est disponible pour tout un chacun avec un seul et unique compte...de rien, merci <U+FFFD> toi! o7"
"your campaign ad"
"mon objectif avec cette proposition est de rendre l'influence sur le jeu de chaque joueur actif visible par tous.j'ai d<U+FFFD>j<U+FFFD> donn<U+FFFD> un exemple, qui est un vote par personnage au lieu d'un vote par joueur pour <U+FFFD>lire le csm.si j'ai les moyens de payer de nombreux comptes , j'ai autant de votes <U+FFFD> ma disposition. c'est un avantage non n<U+FFFD>gligeable avec le syst<U+FFFD>me de vote actuel, et une participation de votants historiquement faible pour le csm..voici d'autres facons d'influencer le jeu en sous main avec des alts anonymes qui ne peuvent pas <U+FFFD>tre rattach<U+FFFD>s au meme joueur...de nombreux acomptes d'alts cloaky campeurs, qui peuvent paralyser l'activit<U+FFFD> de multiples systemes de new eden, tous dirig<U+FFFD>s par le m<U+FFFD>me joueur. le concept m<U+FFFD>me d'un alt cloaky campeur n'est pas productif pour le joueur qui contr<U+FFFD>le cet acompte, c'est donc <U+FFFD>videmment un joueur qui a les moyens d'avoir des alts non productifs qui peut exercer ce type d'influence. n'est ce pas du p2w? cela ne disparaitras pas, bien s<U+FFFD>r, mais au moins la source de cette influence serait visible.de nombreux alts infiltr<U+FFFD>s dans chacun des grands groupes de jouers, avec derri<U+FFFD>re eux un seul et m<U+FFFD>me joueur qui exploite les informations internes pour son b<U+FFFD>n<U+FFFD>fice, que ce soit les channels d'alertes, les ordres de d<U+FFFD>ploiements, ....de nombreux acomptes de traders anonymes, tous dirig<U+FFFD>s par le m<U+FFFD>me joueur. .pour moi tout cela s'apparente au payer pour gagner. au moins rendre ces liaisons publiques pernettrait d'indentifier les joueurs maniant ce type d'influences. c'est tout ce que je demande."
"my name is borat guereen, and i approve this message (minus the two spelling mistakes... )thanks!mon nom est borat guereen et j'approuve ce message (sauf pour les deux fautes d'orthographe )merci"
"why if the majority of the players are not set up in low-sec/null-sec alliances and wars is ccp not focusing on content development for them. the entirety of the eve media seems dedicated to advancing the interest of players to play eve just to blow each other (and the rest of us up) why are our interests not being represented well, why is ccp not advancing content in the games in areas where you are not targeted by players 4 seconds after you de-cloak? this is not about separating more groups of players with different interests but a ambition to add something in the game for those of us not interested in new ways to blow people up..."
"sion is not the only csm member who shares this opinion, i've heard people say the exact same thing before sion even released this."
"simple exercise for you. open the map and go to the statistics tab and click on players in space in last half hour. then rethink your first sentences.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"i have corrected the missing negative in my post.the map doesn't help me tot up all the next to empties compared to the smaller much redder empire space.i am assuming there was still a significant proportion of people playing almost entirely in high-sec, maybe they've all gone and i am overdue too...i have been told in replies to my other postings in no uncertain terms that eve is a pvp game and has always been and i am in the wrong place. i have played since 2004 and have never shot at another players except in self-defence. what worries me is that the games seems to have no momentum in making non pvp content, players like me are just ridiculed, the only significant non pvp content i can think of since i started playing is pi, exploration and epic arcs, these are all dusty furniture now and i hear nothing on new content for non player combat areas all all focus and clamour is in the opposite direction. i am alone in this view? why does ccp just disband npc space and stop deluding players that there is a non pvp game here too for those who want it?"
"ah, ok. see i was answering the first question and scratching my head wondering where you got the impressions everybody was in null.i disagree that ccp always plays to one portion of the population but at times the communities can act very envious of the other ones if action is taken to fix something over there. yes, the next year is going to have a lot of null focus because sov really does need some attention. no, that does not mean that all the other parts of space will be ignored. that is why i am running. to represent hisec play and the casual gamer. to watch over the fact that no part of space is isolated from the rest, not even wormholes. any change causes ripples across all of new eden and so you need wh reps, low sec reps, hisec carebears like myself, as well as the null representatives who admit that they don't need your votes because their own people will sweep them in to victory easily.i do not have that luxury. i need you and people like you to vote.a lotmmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"then we need some kind of affirmitative statement from ccp they actually support this playstyle because reading any eve media and reading future plans i see a big zero. the only issue discussed seems concord tweaks and war decs, this is not new content.i game like eve has enormous potential for no pvp content and there seems no movement in this area. trade expansion, market interaction expansion, science explansion, social expansion, planetary resource expansion, npc corp interaction explansion, co-op mission explansion, the list is huge. no-one seems even to both to mention it as it is not big for pvp or alliance meta-game twaddle. where is the prompting on ccp on this.all this could be done, all players could enjoy it if them want, all could offer risk of various sort (economic, pve or player pirating, where is the debate? its seems be a total non-starter....."
"-1 i mailed you about it, you read it, then didn't reply."
"applications are ending. time to vote soon.a candidate may not agree with everything but he should be a fair representative and witness of what people told him.before requesting our agents to endorse someone, we would like to be sure you would speak about these following subjects if member of csm x : 1- piracy : we don't want new game mechanics which reduce ability for some to live in a securized space. this subject is important in game but becomes also more important politically out of game when we see some unscrupulous organizations applying for csm.2- walking in station, legion project and valkyrie : these 3 subjects are important because they would add other perspectives for eve online. that's the reason why they should be supported as a whole and not like other games. they must be linked with eve online. perspectives in a game are the main reasons players, new or old, would stay in this game. working on this doesn't significate ccp shouldn't work also on current mechanics.3- societies, social hubs or organizations : we are so we want them.4- market mechanics : even if it would necessitate big modifications, ccp should start to think about this in their planning. see what we spoke about in this thread about shares exchange as a way to influence in another way the sandbox.your answer could be as simple as an \"ok\" for each point.and we will be yours.best regards from the law organization and its messenger."
"as soon as true command ships give a mining foreman bonus so the booster can defend itself. till then, nope."
"can you please be more specific on who your advocating for? the high sec players or the high sec gankers / pirates?"
"neither gankers nor pirates.not only in high sec."
"1) i am not sure what you mean. hisec is not 'safe' it is a place where consequences happen as enforced by npc's. in null and wormholes the consequences come more from your fellow players. any freaking change will affect someones ability to live in the space, question is which change and who gets affected. take the awox change coming this tuesday. it has an effect but i was totally for it because it was a very dumb rule to begin with.2) ccp has a game universe and an intellectual product and they are going a lot of different ways with it. i do not expect to see direct crossovers anytime soon for a few reasons. the first is time differential. we fight in long 'age of sail' type battles while valyrie is more twitch boom dead. (i have played it a few times) legion/dust is small group and also hard to tie in without a lot of economic rulings for it all to make sense and not for a mediocre pilot to be able to buy and see squads at the drop if a few million isk. it is easy to demand integrration but a lot more difficult to actually envisage what the hell that means. as for walking in stations? i wrote this and stand by it.3) societies. hell yes. i will continue to fight for them (and the name)4) market mechanics are cool if we could have some sort of concord securities commission. otherwise it would be a madhouse with uncontrolled monopolies snatching up all the little fish. go back through the histories like eve bank, the number of corps and alliances shut down or broken due to bad share management and tell me i am wrong.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"this was done to protect null sec mining boosters. neither the orca or rorqual have received a balance pass, so it may yet change. in relation to high-sec, since the orca is also the logistics of a fleet, it is almost always on grid. hence the \"nerf to hi-sec\" is a non-sequitur for this particular item.*==========conflict is just not measured in dps and ehp. harvest -> build -> destroy are three legs that eve stands on. mike gets this and has my vote."
"here you go, csmx ad completed."
"i have removed some rule breaking posts and those quoting them. as always i let some edge cases stay.please people, keep it on topic and above all civil!the rules:3. ranting is prohibited. a rant is a post that is often filled with angry and counter productive comments. a free exchange of ideas is essential to building a strong sense of community and is helpful in development of the game and community. rants are disruptive, and incite flaming and trolling. please post your thoughts in a concise and clear manner while avoiding going off on rambling tangents. 27. off-topic posting is prohibited. off-topic posting is permitted within reason, as sometimes a single comment may color or lighten the tone of discussion. however, excessive posting of off-topic remarks in an attempt to derail a thread may result in the thread being locked, or a forum warning being issued to the off-topic poster. isd ezwal community communication liaisons (ccls)"
"no where did i say that as a csm you should \"peddle your own ideas to get specific changes implemented\" or to be a \"mouthpieace for whomever complains the loudest.\" i clearly stated that as a csm you should have concepts and ideas that you can suggest in order to solve certain issues. previous csm members have done so.you don't need to be a coder to suggest for example that the bounty system needs to be improved, or to come up with ideas that would improve combat boosters, or hey even ideas on how to introduce more small gang pvp in nullsec . blink if you don't come to the table to do anything, then what are you? just a talking head for/to ccp? it's this sort of passive do nothing style notion that brings the largest about of criticism toward the csm by players. no you aren't suppose to code and create aspects of the game, but you should be part of the process in a meaningful way.nobody said that you should \"design an all-encompassing feature\" for the game. i talked about you actually having relevant input in the process. right now i don't see that as a possibility. you may be a nice guy to chat with but the csm needs more than that."
"and in order to do that you must be able to provide relevant feedback which sometimes include solutions.there is no division between \"just a pvp\" corp and \"just a pve corp.\" they're not rival or competing factions or playstyles. eve is a social game and anything that you try to accomplish works better in groups through the corp mechanics. if it made no difference, you wouldn't be having issues with wardecs. but i digress. here's the beautiful thing about eve...if someone does something to you, you can do it right back to them. someone fights you, you can fight them. that's balance.balance doesn't exist when a hulk can fight off a gila. balance exists when you yourself can fit up a gila as well (or a ship to counter the gila) and go fight them.the problem is that you are trying to run a \"pure industry\" corp or alliance which is about as intuitive as trying to have a china shop in 5th century germania. eve is a violent brutal game and your ability to be violent to your enemies is what will ensure your security, not a sense of entitlement. and there are large corps/alliances in highsec that do industry, but most of them once they reach a large enough player base tend to migrate to more profitable areas of eve such as lowsec, nullsec or wh space. if the defenders are being farmed easily and are socially averse, that's the problem on their end because they refuse to play the game and fight. they're free to do that, but don't punish the people that actually want to play the game in its full manner pvp and all."
"thanks!"
"bobmon has my support for csm. he has the ambition and drive to make proper changes."
"disclamer: bobmon is a mate of mine.i've known bobmon for aaaaaaaaages, and worked with him on a number of different projects. he is passionate about eve online and its community.if he is elected to csm i know he'll put 110% in. he has my support.-dr"
"as many as it takes. though i also understand leelo is rewriting the white paper to more specifically outline responsibilities/roles so perhaps it will drastically change what ccp is looking for from csm this year."
"hey, since you are kinda exploration focused and have some wh experience, i wanted to ask you couple things:- do you consider yourself a \"wormhole candidate\"?- what are your views on the current state of wh pve, with lower-classes on one side and c5/6 capital escalations on the other?- whats the best way to get more people living and flying in wormholes? what are the biggest hurdles atm?- any thoughts on t3 rebalance?"
"thanks gehnster!"
"thank you so much guys for the support :)"
"in my humble opinion, being an industrial representative means a general understanding of what effect industry has on this game as a whole and not just one aspect of it.mining changes are brilliant, i'm not knocking that, but industry details so many more aspects than just mining and i'm curious as to your understanding of the rest of the aspects.for instance, you said you're a freighter pilot, do you have a detailed understanding of how the changes in the rhea patch effected industry and the impact that change has on the markets throughout all of new eden?if you're only running to effect change in mining, how can you be an effective representative of industry as a whole?you should then be running for \"mining representative\" and not a full on industrial representative, again just in my humble opinion.also another major concern of mine is the fact that you are so involved in eve-radio as a manager etc, do you really have the time and energy needed to dedicate to csm with your other duties?funkybacon was just a dj/blogger yet he proved to not be an effective csm representative as his dj & rl duties took away from that.running for csm should be to improve the game as a whole for your constituents that you are there to represent, and not just one single aspect of it (ie mining)."
"i touch on mining the most because it is the area that has not seen any changes since probably when it came out. yes i would be representing other aspects of it as well, that is, pi, moon mining, building and manufacturing and the like. for instance, we can go ahead and take mining out of the picture here, whats are some other ideas?so we can take a look at pi ... for instance, making it easier to set up. meaning, instead of having to place x amount of factories we can upgrade them to produce more materials and goods at the same time it would create also extra interaction.. so upgradeable structures is something that i would like to see, or also maybe even the possibility to actually move around a structure to a place on the planet that may have better yield.that is one idea on that regards, or ... like what we have with moon mining, we have the siphoning units for moon goo, but it would also be interesting if we could have those similar units to siphon pi next to a player owned poco. i don't see why we shouldn't be able to have something tike that.these are just a couple of things that i feel would deffintally help in making that aspect more interesting. so, yea i would be standing up for industrialist, not just mining.the next i would touch up on is the jump changes, yes, i do feel that it has effected the industry side of things as well. for instance it has made it a bit tougher to get stuff in and out of null-sec. the one thing that i have throulght about in particular are carriers and using them to transport ships around. the fatigue timers on them are crazy. i feel that a ship that you have to actually train those jump skills on should be getting a better bonus. this has been a problem i feel because it makes it harder to move those ships around when you have to wait an hour or so between each jump. now, eve radio, yes i am involved with eve radio, however i don't feel that will be a problem for me. i know for sure i will have the time to dedicate for csm. i don't feel the actions/limitations of one should effect another person just because they are tied to the same group. and yes i agree, i want to help improve the game as a whole, even though my main focus is industry, i have taken part of nearly every other aspect in the game, from pvp, fw, missions, null-sec sov, and exploration for instance. so i do have a broad range of knowledge that would prove useful.i hope that answered all your questions there, and thank you!"
"agreed, mining itself hasn't seen many changes except for the rebalancing of the industrial hauling & mining ships.the addition of the venture mining frigate gave a great boost to mining in itself allowing players old & new to dabble in mining adventures where they otherwise probably would not have done.i'm curious to know exactly how you would propose mining changes without taking into account the addition of new ships or further rebalancing of current mining ships.you already can do that, when you have the proper scanning skills (planetology & advanced planetology) to scan down the planet.improved scanning skills allows you to see where the best place for positioning on the planet is and you can always tear it down and move it to another side if you so should wish... upgradable structures are always a bonus, but on the other hand it is a passive income which in my opinion should require *more* interaction for better yields instead of just making it easier for everyone to have a passive isk sink.yes moving the setup costs isk as it should do and of course the time put in to tear it all down and set it up again, but the way it is now is beneficial to all pi producers allowing more than just 1 person to use the planet for pi production.with what you're saying basically ignores other users of the planets for pi production and gives the general assumption that the planet is your's and your's alone.the assumption that a planet is your's to do with as you wish is completely wrong under the basis that this game relies on everyone working as a team in all aspects including pi production and would knock the rest of your corporation out of the ability to produce pi themselves should they wish.pocos are usually empty or next to empty so siphoning them is not really a viable solution to changing pi into a more positive aspect.on this point, as an industrial pilot, i would totally have to disagree eventhough the changes have had a strong adverse effect on both myself and my corporation as a whole.carriers are *not* intended to be industrial ships or haulers... their purpose is as a combat ship and to allow refitting and reshipping during combat as the dynamic situation of battle demands... as a pvper you should know this.therefor your proposal of turning back the jump drive changes to carriers will again make nullsec static giving the bigger powerblocks again a greater advantage of keeping it to themselves.that defeats the purpose of trying to break the major powerblocks hold on nullsec and denies smaller alliances once again the ability to venture into nullsec in their own right which we should never do again.everyone should be able to experience nullsec should they so wish and the change to jump fatigue not only fits with lore but also allows smaller alliances to get in on the nullsec experience.what is any game without it's lore?the 90% jump fatigue reduction for industrial ships greatly offset the negative impact of jump fatigue as a whole for industrial pilots making your statement invalid and totally moot.you can already fit 6 battleships with fit in a jf to bring them to the frontlines in a major battle should it be necessary to give your carriers on field extra support during major battles.those 6 ships in the jf is more than the 2 fully fit battleships you can fit in a carrier."
"my sincerest apologies if i come off as saying that because you're involved in eve-radio you shouldn't run for csm... that is not what i mean nor is it my intention.my concern is i am aware of your duties & responsibilities not only in eve-radio but with her sister station subspace radio and it makes me wonder if you're not somehow underestimating the task at hand and spreading yourself a bit too thin.there have been plenty of people who are not involved in er or ssr who have ran and been voted into csm while totally underestimating the requirements and responsibilities to be an effective csm representative.as has been said many times not only in these csm forums but also on csm forums on reddit and other sources, one should always take into account whether one is able to take on the responsibility of csm in combination with either corp/alliance leadership requirements as well as rl job etc before running and being voted in.as one reddit user put it \"if your corp is going to crumble because you're not able to run it, or if your other works won't allow for the required dedication then you shouldn't run for csm\".one should always do sufficient research into the viability of taking on such a responsibility before doing it."
"if you don't vote for this great man you are a casual."
"thoric definitely has my vote."
"i agree with this. however, what would you propose to fix the fatigue problem?"
"your website sucks. but you want to nerf ishtars which is probably the best of all csm runners' talking points. **** ishtars. you've got my vote. as for pos being inactive, why not make them hackable and then they go to the control of the hacker if he is successful? integrate pve with pvp. another candidate briefly touches this point, but its also aspeaking point of yours. vindis should be black, ofc. glasses-whatever. ishtars should die. klapen for csm.p.s. your website sucks."
"the day i made that website i vowed to make it look like a 8 year old made it. i feel proud to report i have outdone myself and it looks like a 3 year old made it.this is an unfortunate consequence, if ishtars were nerfed people who used them for pve would possibly suffer. it would be nice to explore to see if there was alternative options where pvp ishtars are nerfed and pve would not be upset too much, we will have to see what the future holds. if you have any suggestions feel free to mail me."
"i saw down and spoke with migui x'hyrrn for the cap stable's csm x interview series, listen here:"
"thank you guys!"
"1.0"
"you have my appreciation, both for the kind words and for the vote. that's an excellent idea. i'll definitely be bringing it up. thanks for making that, and color me impressed that you managed to find my old eve down under presentation. dreads are in a pretty solid spot, though carriers could probably use some work. i'm not a huge fan of the sans-risk skynet style of play.cowardly abuse of game mechanics? as opposed to what, cowardly trying to leave the honorable field of battle? sov is becoming more trouble to hold than it's worth. rather than a change in the distribution of resources, i'd like to see mechanics added that allowed alliances to build up their space into something more valuable. build up in the urban sense of the word, to increase density and value and to allow for reduced footprints for alliances in 0.0. the side effect of being able to build a meaningful space metropolis is a greater sense of home and attachment, which is always more difficult in a static truesec type of mechanics system. i wrote an entire article on the local issue:"
"i'd like to see jump freighter fatigue cut by 50% of the current accumulation rate. i'd also like to see the rorqual range upped to 10ly, but have the same fatigue accumulation that the jump freighter currently has. if a t2 bowhead ever gets made, i think it should have the same accumulation rate (and 10ly range) as the rorqual.my thoughts on fatigue in general is that it's a terrible idea to make it harder to move goods from one place to another, but placing limits on military force projection is different, and should be treated differently. until the rest of the sov changes come out, nullsec is limited because local defense can rely on carriers and supers more easily than an attacking force can attack with them.if elected to csm, i'd ask ccp for statistics on the average number of active accounts with carrier and dreadnought skills trained and in-training, and based on the results (which my guess is that they've declined), modify capital training time some. without easing the time it takes to get into the ships necessary to take and hold nullsec sov with a new group, players are forced to either not go to nullsec or join an existing group. phoebe has reinforced the need for coalitions and non-aggression pacts to secure their borders as much as possible on focus on peripheral security. in my opinion, that need will never go away. the only way to prevent it would be to put a cap on the number of standings an alliance can set, and that wouldn't encourage content."
"yes to a reduction on industrial fatigue (see previous reply), but while i wouldn't mind seeing blops fatigue reduced slightly (maybe 75% of current), i'd like to see cloak modules nerfed slightly. my suggestion would be a maximum cloak time for each module (higher maximum the better the module), but the longer you stay cloaked the longer your reactivation timer is once it deactivates. the penalty would apply to covert ops haulers as well, but perhaps with a 10% reduction per covert ops skill level. if you want to camp a system 24-hours, bring some d-scan inhibitors or fly a recon."
"these are the questions from marc scaurus and my answers.what single part of the game do you feel requires the most work in terms of iteration by ccp? *(please choose just one!)corporate/role managementlowsec in generaldo you feel that lowsec is <U+FFFD>fixed<U+FFFD>? if so, explain why. if not, explain what you want to see done to fix it. *whether you mean fixed because there was a problem or fixed as in 'static', my answer to both is no. eve is not a static game and things change both by updates and player influence or use of the space. while it may be underutilized, that doesn't mean it needs fixing or any additions to make it more appealing just for the sake of trying to get more players to live there. i am not a lowsec resident; i live in nullsec, so i would defer on any changes to the region to the representatives who live in the area, such as sugar kyle.do you have any plans to push ccp, if elected, to iterate on lowsec in general? * (feel free to elaborate)the biggest changes to eve which i support and which would affect lowsec the most would probably be pos plans and pi layouts. i iterate my ideas more in my campaign thread, but tl;dr is being able to save and reuse pos and planet structure layouts for future pi planets or poses. just like saving, reusing, and even sharing ship fits, the addition of both these mechanics would benefit the majority of eve players and eliminate a lot of useless tedium that bears no impact on players other than to frustrate them.in your opinion, where should lowsec rank in terms of priority for iteration by ccp? * (use a scale, or 'less than null, more than high', etc.)in terms of regionality, i would have to rank lowsec less than nullsec at the moment. post-phoebe nullsec is stagnant while awaiting the last two parts of sovereignty changes and i want to see that finished before ccp refocuses attention elsewhere. after sov changes are finished, i would still prioritize lowsec beneath the outstanding issues that all of eve would benefit from such as corporation/role management changes and pos mechanic changes.what, in your opinion, are the main factors that make lowsec more attractive to its current residents than other areas of space? *from my limited experience (~6 months spent there several years ago), i'd say players who live there like it because there's danger, but not so much that it requires participation in and support of multiple alliances to live there. lowsec has different opportunities than highsec or nullsec, and it has different types of danger. nullsec sov space is time intensive, but lowsec doesn't have to be while still providing a lot of similar pvp and pve fun.what is your thinking regarding piracy in lowsec <U+FFFD> is it good, bad, or ugly? *from a lore perspective, i'm surprised the factions haven't gotten enough complaints to upgrade gate and station guns. in terms of pure gameplay, it's lowsec not highsec, so pvp content is a part of the life. players shouldn't go to lowsec without expecting to be challenged and/or killed. it's low security with a warning dialogue box for a reason.what are your thoughts on the notion that increased protection for pve players in lowsec will result in a better lowsec? *if they want protected pve they can mission in highsec or rent from northern associates[dot] in nullsec. lowsec is an ongoing challenge to the players who live there, and who seem to love the adversity. i wouldn't want to see pve protected more for a region meant to be less secure, but i would support additional, challenging and dangerous pve content for the area.what are your thoughts regarding faction warfare, particularly the idea that fw is the killer feature of lowsec? * *(\"killer feature\" as in \"killer app\" - the defining characteristic of the space.)i've never been a member of fw, but i've done some frigate brawls with a few of my pvp characters which were fun. i think fw satisfies many players' appetites for small to medium scale warfare similar to nullsec sov warfare, but without as much blobbing. fw space is meaningful in a different way than the rest of lowsec, but not necessarily better when it comes to a player perspective. we all pick different places to live based on the play styles we love and the time we're able to play the game.if elected to csmx and subsequently informed by ccp that lowsec was the <U+FFFD>hot topic<U+FFFD> for iteration in the coming year, what input and advice would you have for them? * (we all know that the 'informed by ccp...' part will only happen when hell freezes over - but just in case)i'd ask them to finish up their changes to nullsec sov first (if they didn't have that done by then), and then i'd complain about how they could be spending their time on more important and actual problems like corp/role management. then i'd shut up and help as much as i could to give input on any changes despite my deficiencies in the area. from my perspective as a player, it's rarely possible to change ccp's mind once they've announced a development plan, so working with them to make the changes good for players is the best way to be of service.bonus <U+FFFD> what lengths are you willing to go to in order to make pirates flashy red on overview by default again? (we want what was taken from us!)i wouldn't have an issue with supporting it to be enabled by default. personally, i would support a new player tutorial that explains overview settings and functionality. it's an important part of the game and might lead new players to ask questions like 'where can i find a pirate?'."
"here is your campaign ad."
"have you submitted your paperwork to appear on the ballot yet?"
"here is your campaign ad."
"your csm campaign ad"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"we need this guy on the team, so we can say that ccp knerfed something!!"
"i heard he likes cookies so +1"
"as the child of two great men i support this candidate"
"+1 buckle up knerf & gl :)"
"have you submitted your paperwork to get onto the ballot already?also, is your candidacy being officially backed by northern coalition.?"
"checklist of regurgitated wis topics over the last 5 years that could have been googled instead of re-posted: checkcheck checkcheckcheckinb4lock?"
"someone is being salty that a positive and constructive conversation is occurring.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"by this point anyone involved with walking in stations has quit or been fired. they would have to hire a full new team."
"and i'll happily stop being salty the day something comes of said constructive conversations...."
"imo tutorials should eb removed and replaced with tools to get newbies into communities quickerin a meta/social game like eve, no amount of tutorials ccp could put into the game could help you, because to put a comprehensive tutorial out would require dozens of hours of playthrough to finish, and likely thousands of man-hours to create, whereas on the flip side, you could learn most of the stuff first-hand in an experienced corp in 1 or 2 afternoons."
"exactly this.there is simply too much information in this game to digest in an hour (or two) long tutorial. and it is always changing in terms of how people use that information.that is why i tend to warn newbies that eve is a \"process game.\" you learn far more by doing things and failing than just reading.is it frustrating? yes.do player learn from the experience? absolutely. because humans have this interesting trait where we retain information better through negative reinforcement.does this discourage players? sometimes. then again... eve kinda caters to the type of players who lose and want to stop losing***.***think back to your childhood. remember that friend who you played ____ game against and he/she always lost? then a few weeks later you meet for a rematch and he/she utterly crushes you... repeatedly. all because he/she has spent that time figuring out what rules are and testing things against other players.that's an eve player in a nutshell."
"time travel back to eve online 2006.then come back and thank them for what you have now."
"i was there in 2006. and you're right.but the fact that things were \"terrible\" then doesn't mean that we must give thanks now that they are just \"bad\" . it only shows the low priority ccp has always assigned to this, and that it remains an unfinished issue after many, many years."
"lazyness."
"today was about for me had my head full of: headshots honour mechanics absorb module"
"i am adding hats for spaceships to my platform as of now."
"i think tora understands that there should be a cloak and dagger with eve. he knows that eve should have it's bad players. he knows that weak will always bring down the strongest, if you group them together. he also understands the weak can become strongest. he knows that the good makes just as a good story as the bad. i'm still not to sure if i will vote for tora. but i can say he like what he's been getting at so far.#deletetheweak"
"tora,we have spoken a few times in game, but you probably don't know me that well. i started out in test alliance and flew in the war in delve... found the politics tedious and boring and didn't want to get that hardcore over a video game... i moved back to high-sec to pursue my passion.i was a high-sec griefer and ran a small corp with my friends called wardec u. we were, about a year and a half ago, before ccp's obsession with killing high-sec, 2nd on the corp. bounty list (5th now). we were at war with you almost permanently through your support of many of our targets. our m.o. was simple... hunt and destroy industrial corps until they shut down.i have a point.. stay with me (my background is somewhat relevant).i didn't start out my griefing passion with wardecs. a long time ago, when eve was at its best, you used to be able to can-flip. this may have been just silly bullshit, but i loved it... we all did. we would always have some shenanigans to do, people to irritate and we made a fair bit of fake money (which is not our objective at all). there were mining fleets of people (and mostly alts) in the belts, greedily filling space with cans to save the 4 minutes it takes to dock and drop. some were even super enterprising and would have one of their clowns flying around to scoop the asteroid poop for them. new players who shared our passion had a way to immediately pvp (the eve kind of pvp where deaths cost someone something, not the stupid e-peen, i am so skilled at pressing my buttons kind like most mmos).then, eve released an update (not sure the name of the patch). they decided that mining ships should have a special bay just for ore, that it should be large and that mining was too difficult (an activity that was already incredibly afk). for the next two weeks our action decreased to the point of complete scarcity. mining became a solo activity and jet cans were something we saw once in a blue moon. on top of that, in a later patch, they change the flagging rules... because somehow the internet space police are all knowing and can't be fooled... i quit the game because it was boring and i was pissed that a game that once prided itself on it's \"ruthlessness\" had backpedaled into nothing more than your typical world pvp mmo.a year later, my buddy texted me with a new plan. we were still pissed, but he had a way to make miners pay... wardec u was born and we were quite succesful in pissing off many deserving carebears.i beleive that the jetcan rules are creating a solo high sec. that high sec is so easy to afk mine and afk mission run that there is no need for people to group up or join corps. carebears can have their cake and eat it too. that i can not abide. the reason i tell you my story is because there are plenty of people like me who stopped playing. plenty. we want to see high-sec be a place where there is a purpose. where miners need to work together again and can't just afk. where griefers (or pirates) are actually causing an impact in the afk lifestyle of miners. i'm not just talking about suicide ganking... i'm talking about more immersive, hunt, annoy, destroy... my band of brothers would return if ccp got some intelligent perspective back in their discussion rooms.my question to you is?are you my guy?you can pm if you would prefer."
"i can give you a very short answer : 100% yes."
"thanks for your endorsement tora and good luck with your highsec candidacy, i think its pretty solid overall."
"hi bam -in our occasional chats on slack or twitter or seeing the many comments of others, i have no doubt that you will work hard and bring value. that said, my #1 concern about your candidacy (or that of any autz person, frankly) is the ability to deal with near-realtime communication, especially in this faster dev cycle.i live in the midwest us and play more on pacific time, and i find the speed of things even on twitter and slack during their work day hard to keep up with. how does the icelandic workday translate to your schedule and what is your plan to make sure you don't end up out of the loop, however unintentionally, if you come on while all the ccpers are asleep?author of interstellar privateer shattered planets, wormholes and game commentary"
"hey rhavas, thanks for your question.the time difference can be awkward but it's not insurmountable by any means and in fact it has some perks. as it happens the icelandic work day aligns nicely with the autz evening. by the time i hop on the pc in the evening after work the devs are usually arriving at the office.in the last two years i've been in regular communication with devs like guard and falcon on skype to discuss matters related to eve down under and i've found the way our timezones overlap to actually be really convenient since i can spend my free time (i.e. when i'd be doing most of my csm work) talking with them while they're in the office.i usually have skype, slack, jabber and whatever else i need running on my computer at work as well. i'm pretty much open for business 18 hours a day (contrary to what nosy gamer and random mcnally said on cap stable's 4th csm analysis show, i do actually sleep sometimes). i'm writing this reply to you from my office now, in fact.as for summits - if i weren't invited to attend in person - the sessions usually run from my evening into the very early am. however, as i've demonstrated by watching every match of the last two ats and neos live i'm clearly not afraid of putting in an all-nighter where internet spaceship matters are concerned.eve down under - a community for players in the autz"
"thanks for the answer.1- hi sec is safer if you don't attack. if you attack, yes, you start to have problems. we don't want to change this logic some suspicious candidates for csm x proposed to be changed.2- peraphs you think about something too much. first demonstration of project in fanfest 2014 is enough far for us. you can make two games with a minimal link like they show. for valkyrie, it could be exactly the same. and yes, they are time differential. that's the biggest reason they should be linked. battle on the ground or in the sky can't be like in space. you could easily imagine it : there are wars in space, on ground and in sky. they would propose the adequate rythm in the adequate situation. for wis, if i understood your blog, here also, you plan very far. a role playing like \"mass effect\" could be enough in the first time to make us discover inner stations. and if it's like in legion demonstration, a game that boots from another, it's enough at first. after, it would be possible to increase interactions.3- we agree even if the name societies is a bit luxurious when we have already organization (the word) in the game.4- your idea \"some sort of concord securities commission\" is quite good. fight for it.with these additional informations, would you be able to be at least a spokesperson in csm x of what is a wish for some ?even if we understand you can have a nuanced vision on some subjects (almost impossible to be a clone for each opinion).in any case, we like your ability to speak and exchange with players. this is what we are waiting for a csm candidate.best regards."
"you got my vote"
"cagali for supreme ruler"
"jayne is a rare breed: someone who commands on grid and commands respect off grid.while the cfc does not implicitly benefit from npsi groups other than content provided via fights, the 'societies' model proposed for non-corporate groupings is something that our structure already enjoys via substantial dedication of resources outside the game. based on the benefits it provides us, i can see the appeal for incursion communities, npsi communities, and anyone part of a group with aligned interests to get on board with this change. whether it's stepping into the arena by delivering an eve event speech (unlike many in csm threads) or fleeting up to defend an excellent small gang record versus ccp at eve events, jayne is one of the few people in eve who is worth interacting with offline."
"a campaign ad for you."
"thanks for this really nice and cool of you to make this. appreciate the support."
"it was fun and i'm glad you liked it."
"i've flown with manny in many roles over the past several years. he's opinionated, stubborn and strong minded. i've had more than a few arguments with him, where we haven't seen eye to eye. he's also someone who has the best interests of the game in mind, and who will not hesitate to voice his opinion to that effect.i fully trust manny to be an excellent addition to the csm, and he's got my full support."
"bobmon is not only the ceo one of the biggest eve online news sites, but being so is probably one of the most well informed individuals in the game. not only is he extremely knowledge in eve, but the passion he has for this game and community is simply outstanding. with bobmon on the board... there can only be good things coming for eve."
"as a one-time contributor to en24 i can only confirm that bobmon is a guy with great enthusiasm, a positive community-minded spirit and his heart at the right place. not only is he working hard to work things out at en24, he has also done good work helping deirdre vaal with evesterdam this year.it's guys like him and apothne who save pl from becoming a black hole of bittervet cynicism"
"+1 from me.i think your strengths will lie in the communication aspect of the csm, and think you should drop the junior game designer stuffs. but i think you'll be good to have on the csm."
"+1 from me, sbu change is something i can really get behind. bring back surprise attacks! =)"
"bobmon has my +1 ,he genuinely cares about eve , very enthusiastic about making positive changes and from h is time in large alliances as well with en24 i think it puts him in a good position to see what is broken in eve."
"definitely have my vote, chance. i believe that you'd make a great csm and i wish you all the luck."
"then wouldn't a candidate who's been around longer, who's had time to experience eve at all it's edges be a more acceptable candidate for csmx? you don't want to stick your head in sov then a person who understand sov and exploration would be a better choice. an experienced eve player will always be a better choice when it comes to things like this, because they have a better idea of the balance that it is. npe, high to null and w-space. i personally do not want a fotm candidate that only wants to be csm because he see a problem with a small facet of his time in eve. when a player who has had time to look at eve in a grander picture can see the large problems far better. i understand that you like the game. but i do not think you should be voted into csm due to this reason. sorry, but good luck.#deletetheweak"
"i personally consider myself a wormhole candidate even if others consider me a daytripper. i will not pretend to know everything about w space, but i do intend to listen to the wormhole community very closely if elected since the health of w space is something near and dear to my cold black heart.i don't see there being a problem with the disparity of operations and rewards in different types of systems. although perhaps i'm misunderstanding your question?the best way to get more people in w space is more active recruitment and propaganda by w space corps and alliances. there is also the larger problem of getting more eve players to force the existing ones into more remote and risky space. i've also heard, but haven't personally seen, w space farmers moving to incursions for a variety of reasons, but it's another piece of evidence that risk/reward should be properly balanced.regarding t3s, do you mean balance between the t3s, or balance with t3s versus other ships?"
"if you are seeking wormholers' vote you should go and talk to us more, have a chat with corbexx (the incumbent wh csm rep), get on wh podcasts, talk to some wh groups, get the feel of the community, give them chance to be wooed by your enthusiasm. ^those three things i asked are what we all care about very deeply. for example t3s are the backbone of our fleets and they will very likely be getting a rebalance pass during your potential csm term, so you should have some idea what that should look like (ie. versus other ships, roles, etc.)."
"my position in a nutshell is that more player control is good, we've already seen the theme from ccp that the empires are loosing their grasp on power and i would like to see this continue... i love the idea of players taking more control and power from the empires and think that it could massively add to the gameplay of eve, as you point out the challenge in this is balance. destructible stations, stargates etc. are all a step in the right direction i feel, but when it comes to giving players more control of things like concord / roles filled by npc's there are more intricate balances that need to be considered. for example i would love to see some of the things that the faction police do (attacking low sec status players, players carrying drugs etc) handed off to players however some things (such as concord) would be difficult to replace players with.sorry for the delay in replying... but i was enjoying the lack of internet access that icelands more rural area's have to offer :)"
"go erika!!! i know for sure you are the right person for the job. and i know from first hand you are as helpfull as one can be."
"being a nice helpfull person is all nice and all. but i don't see her actualy having time to represent us indi ppl. seeing her being in eve-radio and ssr as was pointed out.and to be honest have someone represent industrie in eve who thinks a carrier is an indi ship. for me that just premotes having mining drones in your carrier to go mining, and i realy think thats not a thing to premote."
"a carrier may not be intended as a industrial ship, but it is used in logistic operations to move ships around. i'm not sure how that is promoting that you should have mining drones in your carrier for mining? and as far as the time commitment? as i said before, time commitment is not going to be an issue for me, also, i am not involved with ssr, so i'm not sure why that is being pointed out. i'm also not sure how it also equates to saying that i shouldn't be running because i am from eve radio, i am not doing eve radio stuff 24/7. i have done my homework and again, i am not seeing me as having issues with the commitment. so with that said, i'd like to go over the next bit of topics that were pointed out from raesha.so for the mining, i'm assuming you would like me to go in another angle besides the ideas for new ships and re-balancing or what i had mentioned in my initial post. well there are a couple of things in addition to that. for instance, another idea is that we have something like we have with combat sites. when you finish a combat site you have a chance to get an escalation for better profits. we do have mining belt anomalies as well, i think that if we could get something similar for those it would be interesting as well. it would add more sense of reward as well; say that when a anomaly belt is mined out (or i suppose this could work for normal belts as well?) you have a chance for a mining escalation to pop up where if you go into it, there will be richer ore, and perhaps much harder rats that you would have to deal with. so that's another idea there, and with these ideas, these are to see mining become more interesting and more interactive than what we have now.there's also another idea that was brought up, which is not my original idea, but one that i support: comet mining. both of those ideas there, i feel would add more for mining.so now taking a look at the other points mentioned, carriers. i'm not saying they should have timers like a jump freighter, no, they shouldn't have timers like a jf. i was just looking at seeing them more \"viable\" ... if that's the right word i'm looking for. carriers are not industrial ships and i know that, nor should they be, but i do think that they did get hit too hard with the jump changes. but aside from that idea of reducing the fatigue on carriers a little bit, i think it's a love/hate relationship being a jf pilot. i like the jump changes, it created some localization in null-sec, but null-sec is still stagnant, and major alliances just reorganized themselves. though i think that's going on another topic there ...but it does also encourage teamwork as well - the hate part of it is that it's just more annoying to have to wait a bit before you can jump again. now the moving around on the planets, i know you have to tear it down and then just reposition currently, however i was looking at making it easier and less tedious. you're right that it is a passive income though, and with your skills you can find the right spots and replace your structures, you are still interacting with the structures, wither you are able to upgrade them or just place more down, but the upgrades would also be more convenient in my opinion.you aren't owning the planet, you still have the same restrictions, corps can still work as a team, i don't think that adding that is going to change that personally.hope that answers your questions there"
"the ideas for barge rebalancing are quite overpowered as was pointed out previously... making barges op'd is not the answer to the issue at hand with mining.the problem with mining is most people (including myself) find it very tedious and fact of the matter is, since the removal of drone goo from the game there is a severe lack of minerals as there are way more builders building ships than there are people mining the resources.the way to go with mining is as you said, trying to find ways to get more people involved in resource production (ie making it less tedious for the same or slightly improved yields to promote more players getting involved in resource gathering).the addition of the venture helped this allowing players without perfect mining skills a cheap way to dabble in resource gathering.i know many diehard pvpers who now currently use the venture for mining in between killing off things.brilliant idea, *but* how would you suggest implementing it?how often do you see a comet zooming through?would it stay or would you have to hunt it down and for what kind of yield?wouldn't that then fall more under exploration with a bit of resource yield as a reward like coming upon a rat hauler spawn?they are already versatile & viable.you're ignoring the role that lore plays in the current jump fatigue and missing the point of why it was implemented.jump fatigue was implemented to stop the major powerblocks throwing carriers about, being able to mass move them from one side of new eden to another in 10mins or less.nullsec isn't as stagnant as you think (and yes that's another subject) and instead of blobbing carriers about, we have more of what happens in lowsec with small gang roams plus you are now more likely to defend your small holdings than ever before!staging isn't that easy anymore... what used to happen was someone would throw up a pos or 2 in a system stuff their carriers & supers in them then just steamroll regions to gain massive control of everything with very little opposition.stopping this has & did open nullsec up to smaller corps and alliance to come in and get sov over a system or 2 and made the odds even of whether they hold sov or not.the jump fatigue timers made teamwork more possible than it was before in the aspect that subcaps & caps now fly together through jumpgates (unlike before when carriers could not move through a gate and you needed a cyno to move it even to the system next door) to stage in other system... so why wait? use the gate!you now need a good mixed fleet to protect your vulnerable carriers as they move about which gives the subcap pilots also more content and something to do instead of just orbiting cyno chains til all the caps are through.i actually feel that carriers are more viable now using less resources (ie the cyno-ships and fuel for cyno chains) than ever before!carriers are not indy ships and should never be thought of as haulers!this is also being critiqued in another csm thread here:"
"a single pi production facility per player per planet is already a good system.there are limits to how much a planet can be mined and stripped of its resources.the way its set up now doesn't allow for a planet to become over-mined and gives other players a chance to mine what they need for their own reactions.i'm sure if ccp were to implement the ability to place more production facilities on a planet, they would also implement the ability for that planet to become barren due to over-mining to balance it out.and going back to lore, how would you propose for that to be implemented in empire where the planets are our original birthplaces before cloning without making everyone homeless and space being full of nothing but refugee centers?what happens when all planets become barren?of course that is pure speculation but you need to be thinking of how ccp would balance out those changes to again not make them an over-powered isk sink as you are proposing.being able to move your pi production facility about willy-nilly again doesn't take into account your corp/alliance mates and their production facilities on a planet.what if your corp/alliance mates are already mining on that spot you want to move your facility to?as a passive income, it shouldn't be made easier with less interaction... then it becomes an isk sink which is never what it was designed or implemented to be... which is a fact you're ignoring and not addressing.it also causes an over-influx of pi materials to the markets making the price on them bottom out and also with an over-influx you get an inbalance and overflow of pi materials versus other materials needed for building and reactions."
"thank you for pointing this out, this would have been my next thing i would have pointed out which has also been critiqued here in this thread:"
"can you talk a bit more about this? if you were suddenly in charge for a day, what would your top three priorities be for eve and mobile platforms?author of interstellar privateer shattered planets, wormholes and game commentary"
"several alternative methods or approaches have been proposed that i think would work better: 1) shorter maximum fatigue/timer; 2) flat timer on jump, with no fatigue timer; 3) reduce fatigue arising from jb's as compared to a true jump (this is ancillary to the other two). i'm open minded on it, but i think the essence of most of them is reduce the escalation or cap it. make it less applicable to jump bridges, which have a built in use cost already in terms of sov/fuel/etc."
"what would you think about expanding new eden, rather than constraining players into a smaller place. rather than tying the players hand why not give them more room to move. i see no reason to penalize someone for using a faster method of transport if it is their desire to move rapidly across new eden for any reason. why not give new regions in all zones of space to explore and expand into? if you want to reduce current sov holders grasp. why not do it through pve as well as pvp. create new npc forces that wish to destroy all life that directly attack sov structures with capital and subcap fleets of thier own. why not have ccp generate more content for the players rather than completely leaving them alone to only come back and punish them for being successful. i do not see the logic in the using punitive measures to control the players, when you can reshape the scenario in a positive manner.what i am saying is, content, not penalty timers."
"i'd be thrilled to see new content. i've been hoping since they started talking about player built stargates that we'd see a new sort of space with different rules of engagement. i still think nullspace is better with some limitations on how fast capital ships can move across it, however. we see a lot more *gudfights* in our neck of the universe since it became harder for everyone and their titan to 3rd party from across the universe.the cfc has been using wormholes to good effect to 3rd party and have fun in other places. i would, as i stated, prefer make the rules less punitive, but keep some restriction on rapid movement of capital ships in place. and yes, i own a super, and lots of capitals. i've actually gotten to log them on more and use them recently than before. i completely agree that we're well overdue for a bit of new content to give us new and interesting goals however. it fits in with my platform of decreasing the rewards of risk aversion. if you have to get out and fight some npc's to hold your space periodically, it might lead to some good 3rd partying and fights. if you can't simply huddle in your station and wait for timers to blob, there will be more aggression. of course, as always, poor execution can lead to tedium and making it even harder to hold sov, to the point it doesn't feel worthwhile to most people. it needs to be handled carefully. so, i agree with you partially."
"awesome, thank you for the thought out response."
"well that sure is a relief. knowing you don't want miners \"out, murdered or anything\". right now i'm feeling the sort of gratitude that was likely felt by lepers in medieval times on hearing the new local lord wasn't going to burn down their camp and drive them over a cliff and into the sea. and go right ahead promoting the idea that miners spend all their time magically mining afk for hours on end. the secret must be in one of those guides to making isk in eve i keep seeing ads for. no one i know has ever subscribed to eve because they got all excited about being a miner. but a lot of people do get drawn in because of the opportunity make stuff. some of those folks like to make stuff in small groups or on their own and derive pleasure from resource gathering themselves and that requires a lot of time spent mining. but when you've churned out your manufactured item the mining grind seems worth it and whether as a corp, group or individual you get to experience a real sense of achievement. oh, and believe it or not a lot of us miners do things other than mine. this is my 10th year in eve and i'm still happy.so no need feel sad on my behalf :)"
"i respect people that decides the way they want to play a game of meaningful choices. i don't like botters and i don't like to see noobs sticking to mine without knowing anything else just because no one bothered showing them. it isn't a free choice if you only know a very small piece of the spectrum of choices. mining ore is arguably the worst isk source but it's trivial to escalate horizontally. i don't have an issue with low income low attention game play but i would like to see more content like ninja gas mining where you risk a venture to get in 15 min what a mackinaw gets in one hour."
"i just listened to your capstable interview and think you would be a good csm. only heard good ideas. not a single thing i disagreed on. added you to my endorse list ."
"cap stable's bhock sat down for an interview with the candidate:"
"nice interview +1"
"gorski is one of the last bushido samurai in this game. blob, supercaps or blocks mean nothing to him.his words are integrity, respect, courage, honor, compassion, honesty and loyalty. a vote for gorski is a vote for freedom."
"i am kinda ashamed lol i say \"stuff like that\" so many times and i am sorry about my english. probably should prepare next time and this was my first interview."
"good luck, here is your ad."
"grath, you should run for csm one of these days. i'd bloody vote for you."
"here you go, your ad."
"dotoo foo sent a mail with some questions and i'll post them and my answers here in addition to my reply mail to him.why should my readers vote for you (tldr version)?i care about the broken parts of the game that affect them/all of us and not just the things in nullsec that i want to see changed.what one thing do you realistically want to fix in eve?corp management/roleswhat is your solution to this one thing?put pressure on ccp to invest the time/code work into re-writing it, ask all eve players to put pressure on ccp for them to change it..... it's a big change and it's something that needs public pressure to ensure action rather than advice on 'how' to fix it. once they commit to a timeline for updating it, then i'd certainly give my advice and experience on problems dealing with roles and corp management mechanics.what url has more information about you?my campaign thread:"
"we waited for you with cake and everything."
"i know, i feel bad about missing that. i got stuck trying to get my dang trailer down the mountain i live on. tdlr i had to have a friend bring his tractor up and pull my jeep and trailer out.i'll take any cake that is left over. thank you very much! i like it. simple and effective! i'll post this on my website and see if ccp will let me add it to my csm application.check out my podcast! my blog!"
"i believe that he hassource: friend of the candidate"
"here is your ad"
"hello,for those of you who do not know who i am, i am a high/null sec residing incursion runner. i hope to represent high sec during this campaign and would like to address some of the issues plaguing high sec. incursionsincursions are a wonderful way for carebears to make money, while also being involved in a community. i do however believe that there are some design flaws with them in their current state. a quick list things that i believe should be adjusted are as follows: quicker monetary penalty for stacking the grid with extra players over the maximum payout amount the ability to defend the mothership before the withdraw timer should be introduced the tpph site type needs a little work to bring it in line with the other headquarter site types freighter ganking/super dunkingdespite being a carebear i do not believe that this form of \"content creation\" as gankers would like to call it should be nerfed or removed. however i do believe that the freighter should be given at least some form of self defense. when was the last time you saw a trucker without a license to carry. and to help combat super dunking, freighters should at least be able to lock.is-boxerthis may lose me a few votes, but i believe that ccp was a little hasty in the way they tried to solve the issues that is boxer was creating. and despite all the predictions in the forum post for it, i have yet to see a significant drop in plex price, or a better profit margin on industry. i have however noticed an decline in user online activity in the recent months, and a decrease in the value of deadspace modules which affects the income of high and null alike. i believe that ccp should re-address this issue to come up with a solution that better addresses the problems at hand.[b][u]as a candidate i would also like to state that i do not know everything about every aspect of high-sec gameplay, however as a representative of highsec i will make it my duty to hear your voices and present your arguments to ccp in the best available fashion. the csm should be for the people by the people. the above touched on topics are not all of my opinions about the changes needed in the game, however they are the issues that i have the most experience with and first hand knowledge of. if there is anything you as a high-sec dweller would like to be addressed please mention it in the in-game channel \"aeon csmx\""
"hello,have you submitted your paperwork to appear on the ballot?my understanding is that due to the wardec mechanic, incursion runners do not form into large corporations. instead they form one man corporations that can be quickly dissolved and reestablished. are you satisfied that ccp provides enough tools outside the corp/alliance ui to allow incursion communities to adequately function?the csm is described by those who have served on it as a 20-40 hour a week commitment. would you be able to put that much time into your csm duties for a full year?if you could pick only one other candidate to serve with you, who would that be?"
"qftauthor of interstellar privateer shattered planets, wormholes and game commentary"
"who?"
"i saw eveskunk.com was mentioned, so i decided to add a feature for this year's csm:"
"i have just found out i won't be able to run for csm this year like i planned. therefore i am immediately withdrawing my candidacy. with luck, i will have the opportunity to run again next year.good luck to the other candidates, and hopefully this year of the council involves minimal drama."
"the x candidacy period closes at 11:30 utc on 15th of february, 2015 hope you were in time."
"snip*"
"the only thing i can clearly recall changing from 2007 to now is that currently, getting into null-sec is far far easier than it was back then."
"there's no such thing as a non-pvp player in eve."
"there is no counter to these devices and there should be. if ccp does not want to make a module to counter these items, they should probably be removed."
"blockade runners counter cargo scanning."
"bear in mind that the cargo scanner can only pick up ~80% of the things you are carrying.if you load up your cargo bay with lots of small, useless items (like exotic dancers, documents, and one of each mineral) then it \"overloads\" the player scanning you with tons of information that has to be sifted through.remember... players who are planning for a gank are looking for \"easy targets\"... not ones that make them want to pull their hair out.ship scanners... pvpers don't care. and if you are concerned about being ganked then you should not be flying all \"purple\" fits in the first place. if you want to... then take precautions and fly \"defensively.\""
"but there are counters.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"but op, cargo scanners have perfectly legitimate pve uses."
"as was said there is a counter to cargo scanners, and ship scanners are not perfect in the information they provide. in principle i would not be against a module that confused a ship scanner, but since this information is provided for free upon destruction of the ship via killmail anyways, i am not sure anyone one would bother fitting it. certainly though, ship scanners have too much utility to just remove from the game for no real reason. the overview also provides the ship type with no counter, just like the \"look at\" button give information regarding fitting with no counter. should we remove those too?"
"counters to scanning modules:cloaking devices (can't scan what you can't see)instawarping ships (can't scan what you can't lock)blockade runners (immune)double wrapped cargos (pick up a contract on an alt, then contract the shipment to your haulier)"
"true that you can't fit a module to block a cargo scan, but at the same time ccp has generously provided the loot pinatas which offer that counter as part of the ship. unfortunately the loot pinatas can't be tanked anywhere near as well as well any other hauling ship so the sacrifice you make for not letting people see what you have is to make it very easy for them to kill you even if you don't have anything.as for the ship scanner, i find it to be very peculiar, as it has an optimal range, but is never ever anywhere near complete on its result. i've had to scan a ship i was sitting right next to a dozen times to get enough module info to be able to piece together the actual fit in eft. though usually the people you need to scan won't just sit there and let you scan all day until you figure out their fit. so if there were to be a module to counter a ship scanner by confusing it, then the ship scanner would need to be more accurate if not be able to give you the complete fit if you are inside of optimal or whatever."
"lol... good ones...cloacking - yeah, the can still get a scan on you with a fast locking scan ship... you can't cloak if they lock you first.instawarping ships - even with a triple web hyena escorting a freighter, a fast locking scan ship can still lock and start the scan, which is all they need to do as long as a scan starts on a ship you will see the cargo contents, and yes, i've seen it and done it myself just to make sure... instawarping ships aren't safe, just safer... they can still be scanned and still be victim to a headshot nado gang, or a normal gang if properly doneblockade runners - aka loot pinatas, you take the chance to get blown up even if you aren't hauling anything, it is a target by itselfdouble wrapped cargo - nothing says \"hey guys i'm hauling expensive stuff i don't want you to see\" like a double wrapped shipment..."
"grrr, gankers."
"trade-offs friend, eve is about trade-offs. there are plenty of viable ways to move your goods safely in highsec - just not a one-size-fits-all solution as it should be.what is your goal for these changes? force gankers to randomly destroy ships to get the delicious loot inside? because that seems like a bad idea as it would remove much of the incentive to carry a reasonable amount of cargo, and actually cause empty ships to be popped all the time, something which already causes enough whining on the forums when gankers decide to do this."
"does a server tick prioritise a recloak or ship lock? is it whichever comes first? either way, the scout has less than a second to react to your presence.i wasn't talking about freighters.blockade runners have the same benefits and drawbacks as the cloaks they use.the double wrap goes hand i'm hand with decoy ships carrying double-wrapped shipments.are you seriously complaining about a lack of an all-powerful anti scanning device? given that you already have numerous options to hide your contents and there is literally no alternative to figure out someone's cargo, don't you think you're acting a little over-entitled?"
"from over here."
"could this be a big step forward to solving war declaration problems coupled with the \"white knight\" corporation list?"
"from over here."
"sorry i didn't get back to you earlier. i kept meaning to, but stuff came up at inopportune moments.high-sec has one benefit over all other locations. logistics. getting your hands on materials is easiest in high-sec. anyone doing serious manufacturing in any other sector (except, possibly, t3 production in wormholes) comes to high sec for materials. they then have to ship them back to where ever they're making things, which adds an additional cost, and risk. there are shipping costs for highsec, of course. they're just negligible in comparison.i do agree that some t2 things are too quick to produce. i've said that elsewhere. but as for the 'went up unreasonably' for costs, i have to disagree. the costs are low, as long as you're not manufacturing in jita. it's simple to get them below 1%.manufacturing in null will never really compete with that in highsec, except in very specific areas."
"hey mate, thanks for the reply.i have some objections. first, whoever does mass production resupplies in jita (except for capital/sc builders, which take part of their supply in jita). high/low/null producers do the same, so no advantage for anyone. hardcore producers raise jita materials prices of 15-25 % when they restock in jita, and there's no chance to find suppliers for such numbes, not even in null.logistics is a benefits ? i think that is easier to jump multiple jfs in some place other than moving really expensive cargos around.i moved freighters by 25/30 b per run in the past (which was risky then, is impossible now). and that was clear when i made capital production, with my jf moving 15 b stuff from jita to low sec with just 1 jump.the cost point is partially true, but then again i was talking about people wanting to use the brain to push the game in the limits they can afford. it's true that you can find good spots to produce, but a real massproducer might be forced to move any now and then, and such \"effort\", in terms of business, is a cost (relocating 3 dg towers each 1 or 2 months ?). most people hidden in null can starvate there producing in a very stable scenario (which they deserve, of course, because they can give the time it takes), and this takes us to my only and initial question: aren't we (carebear and \"uber\" players) paying the same money for the same game ?note: i am note aggressing you, it's just the love for the discussion. kudos to you anytime anywhere ;-)"
"worst troll ever."
"not a troll and i am also not the only candidate proposing this. please don't flame my thread."
"in political science, the regular terms are joke candidate or frivolous candidate (and a number of variants; ironic, sarcastic, comedic, etc.), although i'm still not ruling out the \"honest... though still deluded\" hypothesis (which would better explain the charge that goons are messing with his ballot by putting him on theirs' - i mean, what? - and the made-up statistics about his voter base).it's not always clear, but i think any honest person would have gotten the message years ago.either way, we get to point and laugh."
"your campaign ad"
"thank you! it is very nice!"
"interview par cap stable en fran<U+FFFD>ais de ccp tara au sujet du csm x"
"truly urziel, i am unique in my support of sandbox play and desire to shoot others in the face in a space combat game. you however have never dunked another eve player nor used mechanics against them to achieve victory, individually or in fleets... truly, you have only ever taken part in honorable 1 v 1's at the sun, in equally fitted ships, against equal sp toons only...you would never win a fight by any available means. try and shoot the messenger all you want, but i am not running for csm, mike is, and he is about championing continued nerfs to the sandbox, just like ripard teg before him. thats fine, it's his right, but what's despicable is he (and you) try to hide that fact from people. i don't care about rationalizations of a nerf, a nerf is a nerf; 0 minus 1 equals -1 and it doesn't get to equal 0 just because you rationalize the subtraction with 'mechanics fix' spin-doctoring.or, perhaps what you call 'bullshit mechanics' many (including ccp who validated bumping in a ruling) call 'working as intended', and people 'playing downtrodden victim' are actually the ones trying to defend the damned sanbox? you know, like mike is supposed to be doing?look, i'm not the first or only person to call mike out here, others have long ago done so more eloquently than i. the voters just have a right to know....nerf advocates like mike (and yourself) who operate like tax & spend governments pitching new taxes as 'revenue streams' are lying to them. selfsame, dressing up nerfs up as 'mechanics fixes' to avoid voter scrutiny and people clueing into what you are really about is equally not cool.f"
"it's only negative one in your opinion. a lot of changes you dislike i think are good for the game, so i'd say 0 + 1 = 1. you crying over the changes doesn't make them bad, it's simply a matter of opinion and they differ.rofl, a tmc posting by james 315. and that's supposed to be taken seriously and can be assume to be completely objective? i think not.you realise if you guys didn't stand behind code you'd actually be worthy of considerably more respect, right? i say this in complete honesty and this is not designed to be insulting in any way - nothing anyone from code has ever said has ever come across even remotely as if it were supposed to be taken seriously. it's an enormous rp trollolol fest. you'd do far better to drop the act and be frank about issues. drawing up fake graphs and presenting grandiose \"the end is nigh\" speeches really doesn't lend itself to being treated like anything more than comedic entertainment."
"james article is well written and it's very hard to argue with the points he made.the some thing happened long ago with ultima online:ultima online was the first sandbox. housing, pks, full loot, all that good ****. the economy was extremely well balanced, pvp was frenetic, twitchy and had an extremely high skill cap. you could steal from people, poison them, etc.then trammel came. it split the world in to two halves. one half was the way it was before, the other half was pvp-free. if you stayed in the old world, you got double the resources you did in the new one, but at the same usual risk. in the new world, there was quite literally zero risk, so the economy got completely ****** and inflated. everyone went mob-killing (ratting) in the best gear (deadspace) instead of basic blacksmithed (t2) gear, no one cared about ore/minerals anymore, etc, etc.it was the deathknell for uo. subscriptions dropped off massively and it never recovered. the game is god awful now, but a carebears absolutely sweetest heaven, full of opportunities for massive gold-accumulation and nothing to spend it on."
"don't forget to vote."
"the problem is that this is unrealistic, because you don't want people who pvp to defend, you want players who have no skill or interest in pvping to do it. giving a defender a token reward to defend themselve then cutting of their ability to evade isn't going to suddenly make them good at pvp. i'll have to dig out the stats later, but from ccps crest data, the vast majority of wars are won in the isk war by the aggressor. this is because the aggressor targets groups they will win against. there's nothing to gain by attacking someone they'd lose against.i'm all for conflict, but it has to be meaningful conflict between groups who are on an even footing (and it also doesn't have to be just shooting each other, there are other forms of conflict). i'm not for forcing players into gameplay they don't like just so that another group has more targets to shoot at. this game is for multiple playstyles whether you like that or not."
"you cannot possibly play eve without pvping. (sole exception: test server play, where there is no economy).and if you do not believe that groups of low skilled characters in t1 frigates can pose a threat - look at the history of brave newbies. or goonswarm for that matter, although it's a long time since they were newbie-heavy."
"in that instance, by pvp i meant the classic \"pew pew\" variety, which is what you are trying to encourage. you know this too.and i believe that low sp characters controlled by players interested in shooting people can excel at it, sure, but you're being rather dishonest if you are suggesting that's who ends up as the defender in a wardec 9 times out of 10. the majority of defenders are players who have no interest at all in shooting people, and if they tried would fail against most of their aggressors who are considerably more skilled (not in sp, but in actual player ability).i get it, you want more people to shoot at - so go find players who want to play that way. stop trying to force every other player who wants to play their own way into playing the way you want them to just because you want to be fed easy targets rather than hunt tougher ones down."
"not according to your post history.so basically, you hate any and all non consensual pvp. which is one of the cornerstones of sandbox gameplay in general, and eve in particular. why do you even post anymore?and shooting at people whether they like it or not, is it's own playstyle, whether you like it or not."
"check it out, my personal troll found me again.then you have comprehension issues.nope, i'm for non-consensual combat, it just needs to be within reason. forcing players to have to engage in fighting in order to get out of a hostile situation placed on them by another player isn't respecting other people's playstyles. just because people don't play like you, doesn't mean they are playing wrong. i'd like everyone to be able to get whatever it is out of eve they want. that's not good enough for you, well tough, that's still my view.because like you, i'm allowed to. my opinions are valid even if you don't like them.which is why i'm not advocating it's removal. i just don't support making it even easier for a player to be disruptive to the pve playstyle just because you think people should be punished for not wanting to engage in pvp combat. once again though you either are unable to or actively refuse to make that distinction, and you continue to assume that anyone with a view that isn't exactly yours is automatically asking for the removal of all non-consensual pvp.at the end of the day, there's room for all types of player in eve. i really don't care if you think it should be just you guys. that's never going to happen, even if you get terrible csm candidates elected."
"you just said that you're not, unless it's forced through some contrivance about \"even footing\". and this statement also means \"i am against all non consensual pvp\". because \"a hostile situation placed on them by another player\" is damn near a perfect synonym for non consensual pvp. that's the whole thing about \"non consensual\". it doesn't give a flying rat's ass about respecting their playstyle. if their playstyle involves not bothering to defend themselves, so much the better.except for the part where you are, i just saw through your doubletalk. i doubt i'm alone either, you've gotten worse at hiding it lately."
"where exactly did i say i'm not for non-consensual combat? in your mind unless i'm screaming \"everyone should kill everyone at all times with no restrictions raaaah!!\" that i'm not for non-consensual combat. that's ludicrous. i'm for a balanced game, which involves considerably more than one playstyle.no that's not what it means at all. sabriz's suggestions amount to making wars unavoidable without logging off or staying docked, then giving the defenders some token amount of isk to repeatedly die as a form of content for the aggressors. being against that isn't removal of non-consunsual pvp, it simply means not making it ridiculously easy and not giving people choices when reacting to it. and sure, defending themselves, but that does not mean they have to fight to defend themselves.you haven't seen though anything. basically you've read some of what i've written, ignored it and gone on your usual tirade that you dish out to everyone lately. i get it, you hate eve, you hate where it's going. well tough luck buddy, this is the game. pve exists, and ccp are not going to just throw everyone into some sort of pit of death for you to blap endlessly without effort.you want non-consensual pvp? that's fine, it exists and always will but you have to work for it just like everything else. you already have to pay basically nothing to force an entire corporation into combat, you can gank with a week old character in a ship costing a tenth the cost of a mining barge, and yet you want the game to be even easier? seriously, htfu."
"here."
"i'm for non-consensual combatis the quote that i get out of your link."
"selective reading at it's best, i suppose."
"lucas, just click his name and hide his posts. he is not on the forums to contribute. kaaros sees himself as some sort of forum warrior who needs to smite anyone with a different opinion.as to getting back on track; sabriz and i would both like to see more conflict in high sec but in different ways. i want to see veterans exposed to more danger and less newbies farmed by suicide gankers and station camping duellers.i grow so very tired of seeing things along the lines of this, \"it is not fair! they changed corporations when i declared war on them! i paid isk! i am entitled to kill them now!\" meanwhile, the ones expected to defend themselves haven't got a snowballs hope on the surface of the sun.gankers run around suiciding into newbies and laughing at their horrible fits.both groups complain about risk aversion and yet create more risk adverse behaviour.sabriz - how do you respond to that?edit: please, make it very clear between what you and your friends do and how you see others behaving generally."
"so i contuined reading your link and wham \"which is why i'm not advocating it's removal. i just don't support making it even easier for a player to be disruptive to the pve playstyle just because you think people should be punished for not wanting to engage in pvp combat.\"seams like kell is saying that he's for non-consensual combat and like all things in this game it should be within reasonable limitsin my opinion i agree with him. as there there are other places in the game where non-consensual combat doesn't exist because just by fact of being in that space you agree to pvp combat (low and null). so high sec shouldn't be degraded to a free for all just cause"
"no, that's just lip service."
"wow thanks so much didn't know you could block someone like that on the forums."
"your problem is with this: i'll make it a little clearer for those with issues understanding. i have no problem with you attacking a player who does not want to be attacked, but their ability to respond should not be limited to \"shoot back\". players who don't want to fight have the option to run, and that's a perfectly valid option. at no point will i ever suggest that you should not be allowed to attack another player against their will, but at the same time, their options should also not be restricted to what you want.yeah, i'm aware of what he does, i'm just not put off by people like him. he'll get bored or banned eventually, i'm sure.yeah, i agree with that in principle. i'd rather make it more challenging to attacker newer and more passive players while more rewarding to engage in fights where the opposing team is willing and able to fight back. at the same time though i'd like to see players less rewarded for \"safer\" pve and more rewarded for venturing out. exploration for example, it sucks. it should be much more consistently rewarding to explore space away from highsec. mining is the same, there should be more reward for players mining in places like wormholes."
"kaarous, it sounds like some of the trolls are blocking you. does this make you despair?"
"*puts on wizard cloak and hat*i am a watery swamp troll that makes me difficult to kill with fire."
"eve is not and has never been about fighting on your enemy's terms.if i want to dominate the enyo market, my enemies are the other people building enyos. i can fight them on their terms (sell my enyos cheaper). or, i can fight them on a different choice of front - manipulate the datacore market, gank any ship i see carrying crystalline carbonide armor plates, hire mercs to kill my rival's pos, or whatever.other participants in the enyo market need to either repel these attacks or leave the market. this is true whether the attacks target their strengths or weaknesses.if you want your playstyle to be left alone by other players, you need to also leave other players alone - and that means playing on the test server, where you cannot impose your will on the game through the market. if you want the ability to impact other players in the sandbox, you must accept that other players will do the same to you."
"i simply do not see newbies farmed by suicide gankers.freighters, orcas, exhumers, mining barges and t1 haulers are the main ships targetted by gankers. of those, only one requires less than a week of dedicated skilling. (you can sit in a battleship in less than half that time).if you want to complain about non-consensual pvp that hits a lot of newbies, you should be up in arms at two things. gatecamping high to low gates (especially low systems that have stations that sell skillbooks), and market manipulation in rookie systems. the people who are overwhelmingly the targets of highsec predators (gankers, wardeccers and the like) are not newbies. nor are they the extremely experienced player (who usually has a clue they are in danger and so can use the advantages highsec gives the defender in conflicts to escape). they are usually the middling experienced player. we do get the odd actual newbie, and i tend to give them advice to get back on their feet. on laughing at failfits - i do this to older characters. newer characters will instead get advice. if i blow up a vindicator which mixes active and buffer armor tanks and has no web, i'll check the character age. two months - they get advice. two years - they get a minerbumping blog post mocking them. as for wardec evasion - this was termed every bit as much of an exploit as concord evasion once. it gives the defender an overwhelming advantage in conflicts. i support some form of unilateral surrender as long as it is a *surrender*, not a broken mechanic."
"which is all perfectly fine. the problem is that your ideas don't respect their ability to counter you attempts to fight them on their own terms. you want to force people to have to defend, in combat, when you attack them. they don;t need to, that's not a requirement and it nevre should be. if you choose to attack them with guns and they choose to avoid you, that's also fine. at no point do i want anyone to be \"left alone\", but what i don't want is people forced into having to respond in a way you choose, simply because you feel they aren't providing you with enough content when you attack them because they choose to avoid you altogether. i don't understand why some people seem to find that such a hard concept to grasp."
"in fairness, they may not be a newbie in terms of time played, but they are a newbie in terms of experience with the game. they're targeted specifically because they don't know how to respond.and now it's not an exploit. things change, get over it. it used to be possible to use dec shield alliances or shed wars too, now it's not possible to do either.the problem wit ha surrender mechanic is that it puts full control in the aggressors hands, and they already generally have the vast majority of the control. if that were the case, there would be nothing stopping the main wardeccers deccing a corp and demanding 500m isk for example to surrender, which gives them 2 weeks grace and they are back again. if there were no other way out of the war besides waiting it out or not logging in, it would simply get rid of most highsec corporations or cause people to quit. it wouldn't suddenly make them suicide themselves for all eternity into the waiting blasters of what would definitely be a superior force."
"nope, that's working as intended.but i can't say the same for wardecs, which is why we need to vote for sabriz, to get our voices heard."
"yes as mentioned in my eve24 article of recent i feel use shoudl reflect and tied into distribution. upgradabke systems would add value of ownership and desire to defend and fight over it.anchored bubles have been removed from thera on csm wish, as it would clutter the ever shitfing entrances. nullified is a nice counter though and ceptors. there have been petitions of overuse. but in the end, a cyno , a covert , black op bridge, t3, ceptor are allways to make use of their sense of safety and kill em with tears incomming.whats crucial now is next sov round imo"
"got my votes core, outstanding job mate"
"my favourite flight attendant"
"finally someone who can identify that there is more benefit in having an impact on broader ccp policies and game design rather than the specific details of an individual issue. +1 for core."
"+1 from gulnar"
"core might be null/provi specific but he has a big heart for eve, he wants to see people grow & enjoy the game. i thank him for helping me get into pvp fleets & he speaks for the underdog in null, not the power blocs & the meta game, you have my vote."
"gday mate, sorry it's taken me 2 weeks to reply to this. as far as the npe experience goes: there is a massive problem with the way newbies are dumped into the game and left to fend for themselves. the tutorials are horrible, despite their apparent revamp a little while ago. they're clunky, far too wordy, and teach the new player to pve. ccp's stats show that if pve is all you ever do in the game, you're going to leave very shortly. that needs to change - players need to be engaging with the community in eve - which is the real drawcard anyway. i'm confident that, should i get elected, there will be one guy sitting at that table saying: \"how's that going to get more players to subscribe past their trial? have you thought about how difficult that will be to explain to a new player through a tutorial window? how are you going to offset the pain that someone like me is going to suffer trying to get newbies to do that?\" i'm keen to get new players into this game, and keen to have them stick around. i'm confident that i will be able to assist in that occurring."
"i hope you mean walking in stations by wis, otherwise my reply here is going to look pretty dumb. i am personally a fan of walking around. it's a welcome change to ship spinning as i sit around, reading mails and (hopefully) csm stuff. i am disappointed that we don't have hats, and i'd like to see some fat characters around. i've played dust. i have a couple million skillpoints on my brave bunnies toon, and i'm interested to see if legion can improve on dust's strengths while avoiding it's shortcomings. i have a hope that one day, i'll be able to storm onto a supercarrier, kick the capsule apart, and tear the pilot apart with my bare hands. or use a land based battery to annihilate a fleet in orbit. or use shaped charges to blow up those irritating pi colonies that are right in the middle of the juiciest resource band! i'm excited about valkyrie. i'd want to play it before i decide whether or not i'd like to have people with that level of control on the battlefield.i'm a fan of more. more is great. more things to do, more ways to have fun. more ways to engage and interact. i'd love it if we could harness all those people playing dust/legion and the hordes that will likely try valkyrie, and bring them into our magnificent community.edit: sorry , i missd half your question. there's no language barrier. there's always someone who can translate for me, if my horrible french and worse japanese isn't up to the task. we have some fantastic language-specific corps and alliances in eve, and their newbies are as lost as the english speakers. as far as the brave language experience goes? a little while ago i introduced a translation program for various things. i wanted to harness newbies of all stripes, regardless of their ability in english. i called it the hon'yaku sha program, and i had about a hundred volunteers for the gig. some of them did some great work translating various mails and resources into their home languages, and for a little while we had a channel for non-english-speakers to jump into. it was utterly unused. having said that, we have people who are able to translate and interpret for us, and we can pretty well guarantee that we'll have someone able to speak with you or your newbies! thanks again,"
"thanks, cagali, for this answer.we like your enthusiasm and open-mindedness.and are ok on your vision of things.it's a very serious diplomatic position in csm.so, we will first wait and see other candidate's campaign.and we will after ask to our organization agents to endorse some good candidates.we must confess we like two candidates at this moment.and you are one of them.best regards."
"hey endi nice so see you running for csm i like quite a few of your blog posts and the ideas & conclusions you present there.whats your take on fatigue in its current iteration specially the fact that fatigue is global? do you think they'll eventually split it up in subcapital fatigue and capital fatigue and maybe black ops fatigue? because it feels like right now fatigue is too limiting it is basiclly like telling players oh you want to go on that 1900 cta of your alliance well tuff luck for you no blopsing with your corp or going rf something 2 hours before the op."
"bobmon has my support, he is passionate about the game and you can tell this just by talking to him.if he accomplishes just 10% of the issues he wishes to tackle i would be a happy man,im more than sure he will be more than able to tackle all the goals he has raised so far.he will be a great asset to both the community and ccp alike when tackling the hard issues."
"1.0"
"i will vote for bobmon and you will too. why you may ask? bobmon cares about eve and client base we currently have and has epic ideas on how we can continue to grow the eve community for ccp and all of us in eve. bobmon make us proud!xocrice"
"bobmon gets my vouch. all around good guy, and he threw away a carrier to help me raise money for children's hospital colorado last october!"
"i like what he wants to do, he gets my vouch"
"i'll be voting for bobmon with all my accounts, you should too. :)he's passionate about the game and he'll put in tons of underappreciated unpaid work for the community and ccp."
"if you want an impartial view on bobmon then here it is;me and bob have had some ups and downs throughout eve, being in crappy alliances together such as unclaimed. & better such as nc. his personality has become clear over the many years of knowing him and i honestly believe that he would want to change eve for the better. this game is what he desires, it is his hobby and his lover.my opinion comes from my experience of this individual and many may differ but if he were to be elected eve would benefit greatly.+1"
"good men+1"
"so many great ideas, so positive and fresh air :)your mentor progarm idea is probably the best and should be examined very seriously by ccp."
"i'll say this, even day trippers are wormholers. chance is kind of split with the wormhole groups atm. it's wierd but he's on par with the other wormhole candidates minus corbexx atm (you could see his as a good or bad thing). just be careful trolling the wormhole forums. we bite if provoked."
"hey everyone, the latest capstable candidate review is here, which includes the team's review of my interview... check it out if you can, starting about half an hour in."
"should go on dtp..."
"+1 i have been on both sides of his guns and i support this person."
"i wonder how many cfc candidates are genuine and how many are for meta gaming purposes?can you present anything on this and other candidates?"
"that is an interesting question, and one that i can only heavily speculate on, as this is my first bid for the csm, and only have the minutes and commentary to go on.i will say that while i am in the cfc, i am not at all representing them in any capacity (official or otherwise). in fact, aside from people finding out about my candidacy on these forums, i am not mentioned anywhere in the cfcs roster as an official candidate (i would be surprised if i was even incidentally).so in response to your question, as it applies to me personally, i have no greater agenda, other than what i have already stated here, and nobody pulls my strings, has me by the short hairs, or anything else <--yeah, couldn't help it.in terms of meta, i believe in quality change that ensures we can both shape the world we live in and put our personal stamp on the things we do and build. i believe this is best achieved primarily at the individual level (personal motivation and rewards) where teamwork and player interaction simply add value and meaning. organizations are a bi-product of meeting individual goals and needs, and serve to enhance quality of life, they do not exist and cannot have meaning and purpose if the individuals (that comprise them) needs are not being met or achieved.so i could absolutely care less about the meta for its own sake, and understand it to simply be a bi-product of combined game mechanics played out over the vast number of individuals that contribute to the daily execution of those mechanics. the meta is simply a reflection of the overall quality of design, and serves to gauge the effectiveness of the mechanics applied to the single shard universe (which is what makes this game great). so i do not serve the meta for a set of masters, but rather focus on the individual's experience and interpret the quality of change through the resulting meta.hope my answer helps..."
"harry saq, do you know a guy called suq madiq?"
"it does and sounds like we have similar difficulties, by pure coincidence, i am in the very same corporation as corebloodbrothers.can you highlight weakness in the game design and link to possible ways they can be fixed?"
"lol - no, i am from a different lineage ;)"
"it seems that you are more of turning around what i'm saying and it would appear that you may be losing sight of the topic at hand and are confused about my statement, so please, allow me to clarify:the thread that was linked has no relevance to my statements, and what he was proposing and what i am saying have yet to meet on common ground. let's be intelligent about this and try to maintain some level of \"focus\" to these topics of discussion, and not clutter them with confusion.so in closing, you'll have to excuse the forthcoming awkward silence, as this is a forum thread for csmx, and not the forum for \"hi-jacking of threads for personal entertainment\""
"to be honest its more something along the lines of; you are running for csmx so i would like to have some honest answers on what you are promoting. on the question if you have enough time since your in eve-radio and ssr, you reply your not in that.however when i look at voting for people to represent me, i do check them out. so i checked you out also and i came at a few pages like these:"
"so your referencing a blog that i haven't updated since 2013? or a twitter account that i haven't kept actively kept up to date either? i'm sorry but i'm not seeing how this is relevant.but i'm not here to debate about that to be honest. i have dozens that can vouch for me on that, i don't lie. that is done."
"now allow me to clarify & give rebuttal:the thread that was linked was specifically about another csm candidate running to represent nullsec in general and his statements regarding reducing carrier jump fatigue which is one of the issues you're promoting as well for industry.since that is being critiqued there i see no use in re-hashing the same discussion over & over again since it has no effect on industry, i linked the thread... and since that is being critiqued so well in that thread there is no need for me to comment on it.the second thread linked was another discussion in the same thread about the same point that someone else brought up.if it was not relevant, on topic, or a \"hi-jacking of threads for personal entertainment\", or even a personal attack isd would have removed it as such.that is what isd members are here to do and they have the power to remove part or all of a comment if it doesn't adhere to forum rules.what i have done is made valid rebuttal and testing of your knowledge response on industry as well as asked some (in my opinion) very good questions on your promotional platform which you have yet to give any sufficient answer to.as an indy pilot, i care about who is going to represent me in the csm because indy is such an integral part of the game affecting everyone whether they want to admit it or not."
"and in response to this, you saw fit to update your dj character in-game with your csm thread yet you have not \"updated\" your in-game dj character as such.as for twitter, you were just on there the other night advertising you were playing sto, and you haven't seen fit to \"update\" this either?my apologies for the criticism, but it again lends valid credence to the questions on your time constraints to effectively do the job at hand.the only reason i'm concerned about this is for your own well-being and because if elected, i want you to do a good job representing not only myself but all other indy pilots as well.so maybe you should have thought about \"updating\" that information before campaigning for csm to avoid such questions."
"i dislike him less compared to the others"
"some ideas are interesting, can be good for our community. +1"
"recently, cap stable's bhock sat down to interview with alyxportur. the recording can be found here:"
"i'm torn really. i would love another wormhole candidate, but my belief in how this multi box automation destroying mmo's is too strong. i've seen it in too many games, in too many players, and in too many companies.i don't play rift, eq, or wow anymore. eq people started using buffbots (second and 3rd accounts that follow their main around buffing and healing them), daoc had that bad for a while. wow, alterac valley had almost entire 40 man parties of solo man boxing accounts (1 wow account was enough). i've seen what was originally social mmo's turn into soloist wastelands. heck the only reason i like project 1999 is their total anti boxing rules. if i had to choose between voting yes for you as a wormhole candidate, or voting no because of your multiboxing input broadcast and automation stance, i will have to vote no.even if it meant losing a wormholer csm spot, i would lose it to keep all broadcast input, automation, isboxing functionality out of this game. even if it meant a total ban on any and all screen monitoring software, fine. i'll buy another monitor. i don't want eve to go down the road that so many mmo's have. i fear that your prospects of being a viable wormhole csm member is at risk due to the multiboxer stance.good luck on the run."
"it's not automation, it's replication, there's a difference. and to be quite honest, why does it affect you if someone else is replicating input? if you see 20 guys mining, or 20 alts mining, what difference does it make? if someone wants to consume 50 plex a month and keep ccp rolling in cash, i'm all for it. only when it becomes botting or get used for rmt do i care.that said, angrod seems to be in agreement with keeping the changes to isboxer rules in. what he wants is more communication between ccp and the multiboxing community, which i fully agree with personally. none of the csm would take on that task when the changes were announced and people had questions, and ccp gave people the runaround, with the forum telling them to make a petition and the petitions telling them to post on the forum. if an when ccp make further changes to multiboxing rules, i'd like to know there's someone who will raise the concerns of what is quite a substantial section of the playerbase with ccp, even if the end result is the same."
"hi, i'm gorga. i'm running for csm x.i had a really long post written out for this, talking about how and what the csm does, and why running on some enormous platform pushing on lots of changes isn't the way to be honest about what you do -- i decided to shorten everything up for you. i will give you some background on myself as some of my rl and eve experiences and how they may relate to my csm term. i will also answer any reasonable question, basically an ama.i've been playing eve at a very large scale for a long time now. i am the ceo of s2n and a major leadership figure in n3 (we don't really subscribe to the leader/follower mantra, coalition of willing/friends). i have a lot of experience with eve at a large scale, as well as how player interaction, player groups, and many other out of game and in game mechanisms work. i have a hand in many different elements both in and out of the game, as many major decision makers do. i've also been involved pretty heavily with pvp theory crafting, fleet composition design, power projection, manufacturing, pos management, sov management, money management, and a slew of other things. i think my experience in all of these fields doesn't make me an expert in any of them. i know my limitations and where to draw the line on my expertise. that's where my rl and it's intersection with eve comes into play, i have a lot of rl experience leading and contributing to teams both large and small from my work. i additionally now am employed in a network/systems engineering position where i must be able to utilize my skill set to assist in the configuration/design/management of large and small networks i also rely on others to supplement my known weaknesses to ensure that our customer's needs are met. all of this will help me to contribute to the team in any meaningful way possible.i also will make every effort (read: as my rl schedule allows) to be as open and transparent about the csm process as the nda will allow. i am not some major blogger nor do i have my own news source, but i think it's important that the players have some insight towards the csm and as such i can say that i have an agenda item to run on that's directly game related. i would work with the csm towards some sort of disclosure schedule where we would open up about whatever we can on a regular, frequent basis.i also tend to be quite responsive towards direct personal communication. you can tweet me at @gorgaeve or send me an evemail if you would like to discuss something in private or have some sort of feedback. i will also monitor and respond to everything i can in this thread up to and through the csm elections.hopefully that's not too long winded and i didn't lose your attention. also, sorry about the late notice :).proceed with the ama.--i will update this post with any additional important questions that have been answered."
"give me 3 reasons why i should vote you over progod."
"first: he makes progod look dumb :)there gorga started you off.also with the entire corp named after him, give him a chance at minimum"
"he's not running.he's not running. andhe's not running.serious answer (to troll question) is: he is amazingly good at pvp, rebalancing pvp things, focusing purely on pvp and all things surrounding that. i am not quite that focused on one individual thing. i can contribute to that discussion, and drive some of the points there, but i'm not the end all be all. i can help contribute to a wider range of topics with far more expertise.i'm far more capable of maintaining focus and i can multitask a whole heck of a lot better than he can.i'm much better at communicating information and taking feedback. i'm not really very egotistical and self centered, which is an oddity for the role i play in the game. i of course have an ego, but i can fit in the room with progod, a feat not to be underestimated."
"maybe it should be mentioned that gorga was not at the meeting where the corp name was chosen.. so it is not arrogance, but more of a tribute to him, which should say something."
"you're a little too late there champ unless you got your application and all your documents in before posting this of course."
"i have no questions. the original post is too vague and full of placating language."
"i did."
"thanks for missing the point. the csm doesn't get a platform to effect direct innovation. that's not what the job entails, you point out balance issues, or discuss changes ccp is making but you don't sit there and come up with your own platform of details that you want to 'change' or 'make happen'. i'm not going to make some pandering waste of time post talking about all the grand things i would change in eve or try to change as a csm because that's not what the csm is doing.what i would do is end up being a voice and a sanity check for the changes that ccp proposes. i wouldn't be the guy that goes \"i would change it this way\", but instead i can use my experience in the game to represent the position of players in general and help ccp correct changes that would negatively disrupt many types of gameplay. maybe now you understand why it's pointless to have a \"platform\" in a situation like this, because that's just petty political theater. you don't get a platform when you're in the csm, you don't have the option to just radically stand on specific positions. you must relate changes to the current game, your understanding of mechanics and player interaction and come up with adjustments -- or outright kill some changes in the planning stage to be replaced with other ideas.the reason why i think that i would do a good job are laid out, i'm good at working in a team environment, taking and adjusting to feedback, working at a high pace, and i enjoy the kind of things that are laid out as csm tasks. i don't mind making and reporting items to the community. i enjoy thinking about high level problems and working as a group to overcome them.i don't have a laundry list of crap that \"omg pvpeeee in lowsec is broken lets fix this thing guys back me and i'll force ccp to fix this\" guys do. my list of things i would like to see is extensive, but i'm not running because i want to see a lot of changes, i'm running because i think i can help ccp make the best decisions as to how they would relate to a large portion of the player base."
"since progodlegend is not running, are you the official nulli candidate?"
"hello, rosewalker yes i have submitted my paperwork to appear on the ballot.and yes you are correct that most incursion runners stay in small 1 man corps. i feel that maybe ccp could possibly invest in an isk sink that would allow corporations to pay to be unwardeccable. but this mechanic would need lots of investigation to not be abused by major corps and alliances. for the mean time i am happy with the tools that ccp has provided to allow communities of non-corp members to develop and be maintained.i am well aware of the strains that serving on the csm will put on me, and i am fully dedicated to investing the time needed to ensure that the voice of highsec is heard as loud as possible.if i could pick only one i would have to say mike. he is a really swell guy who put a lot of time in trying to help highsec over the last couple years."
"hey candidates!i've just sent you your vote match login details. vote match is a website that matches voters to candidates who share their opinions and views on eve online and it is used by thousands of voters every election to help make their choice.the website will go public on february 24th. while you can fill out your profile after that time, you risk losing out on votes. as such i urge you to complete your profile sooner rather than later. also make sure not to forget the questionnaire. see the big blue button at the top of the page after loggin in.good luck to everyone in this election, and don't hesitate to contact me if you have questions or problems."
"ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh, more to write!"
"can csm members promote this idea - so we can have one issue solved. capital combat ships divide by 2 base types :- dps- logisticdps are dreads. in order to boost their damage they need to use siege module that enhances their dps output at the cost tracking, scan resolution and especially ability to receive remote reps. logistic are carriers. like dreads they can boost their logistic abilities by using triage module that have also similar rule - while module is active ship cannot receive remote aid. overall this looks like good balance. still players proved that ccp was wrong in this assumption in case of carriers. currently one of the eve major issues are carrier blobs that abuse ability to provide remote aid to whole fleet without triage, as while keeping their full offensive potential, and ability to refit on field, they can also provide logistic support to other ships without triage. this way 200 man carrier fleet means ability to :- deploy up to 2000 fighters- drop up to 2000 sentry drones- mount up to 400 smartbombs ( base concepts use 2 per carrier)- mount up to 400 heavy neutswhile at the same time still keeping ability to provide remote aid from up to 597 capital remote aid modules to a single member of the fleet. because of this amount of ships needed just to brake this remote tank , and then slowly chew multi million ehp is so immense that it requires extreme blob of sub capitals supported by capital ships. usually counter fleet have to be so immense that \"soul crushing lag\" will occur. it is very simple way to solve this issue as the issue is connected to capital remote aid systems. proposal is to :- remove bonus they get from hull without triage module active- reduce their base abilities to match large versions. - boost triage module bonuses to counter those nerfsthanks to those changes the only viable way to use capital remote aid systems will be by using triage module with all the benefits and cons that come with this module. without changing how the carriers behave in triage."
"if you say it enough"
"i will just leave this here in hopes of the nessage getting across"
"i'm sorry, i used an example... same applies to any ship that is getting webbed, just lock faster than the webber, simple. unless you mean instawarping a hauling ship without a webber, which is much much slower and can easily be ganked regardless."
"your idea - nothing says \"hey guys i'm hauling expensive stuff i don't want you to see\" like a module to hide from cargo scans"
"yep, that was my idea alright..."
"does repeating a dumb idea make it any less dumb?i don't think so."
"hello all,i am writing to you today in outrage that ccp is releasing my personal ship to the masses, and did not bother to consult me. as the diplomatic shuttle, i firmly believe that i should have early access to the bpc, because i am the official diplomat. +1 if you agree this is an atrocity and should be rectified.official diplomat"
"i have elected you for csm 9 and going to do the same for csm x. i am happy that the new industry ui have saved me lots and lots of clicks. however, removing production efficiency skill and reducing skill requirements to build high end t2 ships were anti-industry updates simply because they are killing the uniqueness of manufacturing profession and i wish i am not going to see more new alts have an easy access to train and build the t3 destroyers anytime soon!!i hope you prevent ccp from doing this again and would be better if new features and skills are added to industry to distinguish manufacturers from other eve players."
"to, initially, get into industry, it should be easy. production efficiency was a bad skill, because there was no choice involved at all. just 'have it at 5, or gtfo' when it came to pretty much any industry.however, i don't want to see industry any more flattened than it is already, and would argue against any changes in that direction."
"purely out of curiosity, would you be in support of active gameplay mechanics which improved your production (simple example, missions to speed up a run in progress), or would you want industry to remain primarily a passive activity?just a note, i'm really not sure which way i would go on it, so i'm not aiming towards one answer or another."
"gah. nice question. my gut feel response is: remain passive for the actual production step. we already have issues with production speed, so either those get worse, or you have to cripple it without the boost.unless you worked on a 'you have x production units per facility/slot. these normally get used over 24 hours, but an activity can cause them to be used faster'. so your overall production is the same speed, but you can accelerate 'bits' of it. would have to be at a character level."
"what about some \"industry\" class mission (much like \"security\", \"distribution\", etc.) which, when completed, granted an additional production slot for a while? then you aren't messing with material efficiency or time efficiency (with their perils), you're just upping the character's number of slots for a while.mdd"
"it is enjoyable to point and laugh."
"you know, in addition to not addressing hard questions, you also spend a remarkable amount of time trying to police how people ask you questions. this sort of attempt to control the narrative never comes off well in real elections, and i don't think it's doing you any favors here either."
"many thousands know my glorious and prestigious name. im lord vaari from noble house of valius. im earl of sosan vii, founder and despot of the imperial pharmacy, golden mountain, self proclaimed prophet, world's most beloved hero, ecumenical patriarch of the silent infinity and many more. i like to become csm, so i, venerated lord vaari can bring the voice of small corporations, industrialists and faithfull into the table and break the dominance of pirates and hexers. to me outlook is very important. i wish to see more medallions with more ability to modify them. i wish to see other kind of awards, like clothe patches and armbands. i also have to be able to strip them away, if bearer becomes unworthy to have them. i also wish to see how my members put those awards on them and see those medallions and other awards in their clothes. i wish to have more contoll to my corporation. i wish to have more means to tax my members. current general tax is sufficent, but i also want to be able to make individual taxes for example superrich members would pay more taxes. i also want infinite number of slots to put diplomatic relations. i want much more clothes into nex. i want hundreds of pieces of clothes starting from boots and ending nice hats. most clothes must be cheap or easily affordable, but there should also be extremely prestigious peaces who make monocles look mere trinkets."
"-1 on so many different levels..."
"great post vaari and nice campaign start. hope to see you in the next csm."
"some nice ideas about posses :"
"gevlon, from the greedy goblin blog, has published his csm x recommendation list today. give it a read!"
"your suggestion about alts is one of the key things that is wrong with this game and your reasoning around it detailed in the post here is spot on, that in itself means you have my vote. blocked: teckos pech, sonya corvinus, baltec1, shae tadaruwa, wander prian, daichi yamato, jonah gravenstein, merin ryskin, linus gorp"
"thank you! i know this aspect of my campaign is vigorously attacked and/or dismissed, and i appreciate hearing voices that support my choices in the matter."
"two good articles i stumbled upon today bring up the subject of toxicity in the community."
"that is something on which i agree with you! o7"
"excuse me if i don;t take your word for it. i've read james' articles before and the only thing it did was waste part of my life.yes, i'm well aware of trammel, something that happened years before uo's peak player count yet for some reason takes blame from some old players for the downfall of the game. i don't really buy it to be honest. beside the fact that the game went on to grow significantly for years following trammel, it was also a separate world, so would have no actual impact on the \"hardcore\" world. the only thing it would influence is how much people cried because someone else was playing the same game but easier.tell me, do you get upset when you play a game in \"very hard\" while someone else plays it in \"very easy\"? do you write letters to the developer demanding your money back because everyone should have the experience you have or not have it at all? no, you don't. nobody sane does, that would be ridiculous. so why would it matter if an mmo had 2 different style of world?that said, nobody is advocating trammel in eve. mike just wants people who play the way they play and enjoy it to keep that style of play. too many people want to force them to have to defend themselves with guns, which they don't want to do. forcing someone to play the game your way is just as bad as forcing you to play it their way. there's room for a multitude of playstyles in eve, and keeping that room is all we want."
"mike. part of ccps seaguls vision was about players having a \"home\" in eve, what does this mean to you?"
"it is hard to argue with such a well presented piece or at least i haven't seen any real attempts other than those rejecting it based on the author, or just putting their head in the sand and claiming no problem exists. however, ccp is the only ones with the numbers to show what we all suspect - players are increasingly moving back to highsec, or using highsec alts, to make their living in safety and that this is contributing to the stagnation and low population of the other spaces. so mike, ccp seagull has presented us with a grand vision of player-built stargates and increased player conflict which many speculate will involve new (maybe jove) space. perhaps this question isn't fair as you have signed a nda, but what do you think is the best way to get a significant amount of the player base to move to or use this space? i can only imagine if things are left as the status quo, no one aside from a few large null entities will move in and this expansion will be deemed a failure.i know you have made some efforts to get new players out of highsec and pvping, but you must admit that the near risk-free and significant income potential of highsec is tempting for established players to come back to and grind an income. without hurting casual or new players, do you think there is anything that can be done to discourage this grinding behaviour on the part of established players and encourage them to move their home somewhere riskier than highsec, like perhaps this new space when it becomes accessible?"
"it's like the boy who cried wolf, because he's written practically pure sperg since the beginning of time, people won't generally sit there and read through 10 pages to find out if it's crap. for me i took one look at the subject and the author, and can be reasonably certain it will be more crying about how terrible and themepark eve is becoming.surely this is something you should know though? i live in nullsec, i moved all but a tiny fragment of my alts out of highsec long ago, so i don't know why pvpers live in highsec, but your group lives in highsec, so surely you know why it is that you choose to sit in highsec ganking industrial ships rather than go into other parts of the game and fight people who shoot back? i'd wager it's much the same reason carebears like highsec - low commitment, low risk, high reward, easy access to trade hubs. so what would it take for you to be coaxed out of highsec?"
"home is a place you care about. that you will defend and work at improving. at least that is what i see it to be. mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"he wanted you to talk about wis."
"so people should be allowed to counter ganking by being afk and making poor fitting decisions? like it or not that's essentially what you're saying.we would love to see the people who choose to resist us by force be provided with support in their efforts. avoiding us is also a perfectly valid tactic, one that is already extremely effective. i would gladly support any changes that made active defense against ganking more successful, but i would not support any changes that made passive defense against us more successful."
"when did i ever say that? i'm certainly not advocating passive defense. in this particular instance we're not even talking ganking, we're talking wardecs. i don't believe a wardec should lock you in and force you to fight with guns to get out.and i agree. people should use decently fit ships, ecm drones and evasion to not get ganked. that said, i think ganking is too static. i like black pedro's idea that concord response times should vary for example, so sometimes you only get 10 secs, sometimes you get 50 for example. i also think the shocking overuse of catalysts highlights a balance issue there. i'd like to see a larger variety of ships and fits able to be used for various reasons. at no point will you ever find me saying that ganking should be removed or passive defense should be the way forward. hell, i want freighters to be given more active and less passive defense methods specifically because they are too passive.so yeah, if that's what you've managed to get from what iv'e said, you very much misunderstand. i just don't think every situation needs to be resolved by fighting it out with guns. some players don't like that playstyle, and that's ok."
"your suggestions on war decs are stupid, you talk about locking people into conflicts that they have no fun doing, no interest and no reward, so they either stay docked or go play another game for a week, possibly deciding not to bother at all and yet your carrots are a few extra percentages of yield, big deal, what a complete idiot!if you want people to fight against war dec's then give them the benefit of immunities from war decs based on how many hits they get on enemies and how many kills they get, and then add that up and apply a block to all new war decs and then a block from that to the value of the benefit from fighting, then there is value in fighting against a war dec. even giving them blocks of time for going out in space and not being cloaked!!!! blocked: teckos pech, sonya corvinus, baltec1, shae tadaruwa, wander prian, daichi yamato, jonah gravenstein, merin ryskin, linus gorp"
"i'm just sayin'."
"thank you for agreeing with me blocked: teckos pech, sonya corvinus, baltec1, shae tadaruwa, wander prian, daichi yamato, jonah gravenstein, merin ryskin, linus gorp"
"well then. i withdraw my objections in this particular instance. i apologize for misinterpreting your stance. if you happen to make it to fanfest in 2016 i'd love to sit down over coffee with you and discuss these sorts of topics in person, i'm buying.as for the freighters i do not disagree with you. they are and should be easily killed when their pilot is incompetent or lazy, they should stand a chance when their pilot takes precautions. i'm of the opinion that they currently are at that point though i'm open to discussion on the topic. as for wardecs, if there are ideas on how a defender could contribute to a war besides getting into a combat ship and fighting head on or guerrilla style, i'm all ears. that's not sarcasm, i'd actually love to hear any ideas along those lines."
"sounds like a plan. i was there last year and am there this year, so all likelihood will be there 2016 too, so you're on.i think on precautions they are there, but that's all they have. once they are in the fight they are sitting there waiting for the gankers and their escorts to duke it out. i'd love to take some of the passive defense away, lowering their tank, and give them some form of actively defending themselves, be it some kind of ecm pulse (which doesn't make concord go nuts) or something else. haven't really considered it enough to go into great detail. but the idea would be that if you are afk, you are pretty likely to get pasted, but if you are there defending the gankers have to put in considerably more effort. ideally i'd want it to be than a perfect fit afk freighter takes about half the gankers it currently does, while a perfect fit active one takes 1.5 - 2x on average.for wardecs i really don't know what can be done working with the current system. i'd be really tempted to consider going back to the drawing board altogether and looking at a system which causes wardeccers to fight over space and in-space assets on a smaller and more flexible scale than things like sov, with industry players playing a support role on either side. when rvb and the merc groups went all out over pocos, that was some great content and i'd love to see more of that kind of things, and less of \"i crush you because you can't do anything about it\"."
"core has been awesome and i'm looking forward to another year of him in the csm! +1"
"core has done great things this term. not the loudest voice, but one of the most, if not the most diligent and hardworking. core for csm 10!!!! +11111"
"you have my vote core. good luck"
"keep up the good work core.+1 vote."
"the csm is all about debating and thinking about the consequences coming with changes. to work properly it needs different ways of thinking. just imagin the csm would consist of only pl people that own a titan. everytime somthing is going on, their first thought would be \"how would that affect my titan-playstyle\". and just like the csm needs a member thinking this way, it needs someone from the other side. and for me, thats corebloodbrothers. he is the representative of the nrds coalition and in my opinion as needed as representatives of the other faces, new eden has. and if the other csm member don't like him for his ideas / point he stands, it's one more pro arguement for him. different convictions lead to more discussion lead to better possible outcome.my vote for core for more variety in the csm"
"you have my vote core. it's important to have a variety of nullsec play styles represented in the csm. good luck!"
"you have my vote!"
"so i just asked corbexx for a \"in 10 seconds or less who'd you like to work with next year the most\" and your name came up... and thats good enough to get you a place on my balot for me:)"
"thanks for the support palli"
"in the latest capstable candidate review i notice that one of the remarks was i wasn't very polished. i am not a politician i would rather people vote for me based off of who i am and what i have communicated not how i communicated. i am not interested in kissing the voters ass to get them to vote for me. i will however try to win you over through superior ideas my knowledge of the game and my experience."
"i am voting for bob mainly because he used some weird crowns on his csm thread title -->> <U+265B><U+265B> i mean how cool is that!? i didn't knew those existed!!!ohh yeah, he's cool. vote him on first place.bobmon for csm x!p.s.: <U+265B> <U+265B> <U+265B> riverini / evenews24 @evenews24"
"bobmon has my vote.known him for a few years now and he has proven to be extremely dedicated to every job and responsibility that he takes on and accepts."
"i'll be voting for my friend and corpmate bobmon.he's a fair and trustworthy guy who genuinely loves eve."
"honestly, i think you are perhaps the strongest npe centric candidate and your perspective as an informed newbro will prove to be valuable during the upcoming csm term. good luck to you!"
"so what are your thoughts on capstable's evaluation of your interview?- how would you see ccp involving youtube channels to promote eve? would they be getting an advanced character, items, ships? what kind of incentive would ccp be giving them?"
"khador, obviously i know that you have a rl career that takes you all over the globe and often at very short notice. how will you reconcile this with the requirements of the csm role, should you be successful in earning a seat?"
"i<U+FFFD>ll vote for you, i like exploring its a good thing to do :) and yep there is pi.... as a newbro i would like to see some kind of tutorial agent for this what do you think?o7"
"i'll cast a vote for you. we need more people with a fresh perspective and a campaign with a unique angle. in particular i like your ideas on ccp lore integration with player lore, and from the looks of recent activities by ccp i believe they have a similar mindset. for this reason alone you deserve a seat on the council as i believe your contributions would be valuable considering the implied trajectory of the game during this coming csm term."
"you've got my vote :)hopefully i'll be able to run against you next year"
"bump for thoric csm 10"
"1.0"
"citri, be sure you've get my vote! and by the way: gibts die stille gewalt flotten noch? w<U+FFFD>rde gerne mal wieder mitfliegen."
"i will amend this.my suggestion is to add a function where players gain a timer that affects the reactivation delay for cloaks. afk cloaking needs a fix so that a player isn't completely invulnerably----just as off-grid t3 boosts are not completely invulnerable (though difficult to find)."
"here's your ad"
"thanks for that."
"filled out the vote match there is some quite useful information there."
"your ad"
"^ this guy wins a prize for understanding it.check out my podcast! my blog!"
"name: janwa reshcorporation: center for advanced studiesprimary focus(es): exploration, mining/industry, pve (highsec) & pvp (nullsec)greetings fellow capsuleers. some of you may have talked with me in cas chat, fleet chat with the cas crew in nullsec, or even in local space in highsec. i'd like to give you a bit of background on myself, and what i feel are areas i may be able to bring some focus to as a csm.i as a player have off and on been playing (through various accounts) eve online for 10 years and nearly 11 months. i've seen many of the changes that have swept through eve over the years, both good and bad. janwa was a character i started a bit over 4 1/2 years ago, but had to leave after a while due to rl issues that couldn't be avoided, which i returned to in december of 2014. since the return i've spent many hours relearning the controls, play styles, and idiosyncrasies of eve online gameplay. i've spent nearly as many hours rereading lore, watching players videos and live streams, and perusing blogs and websites dealing with eve gameplay.over the last 20 years i've been involved in game testing, quality assurance, and in a few instances development change planning for various mmo's and rpg's that have hit the market. from ultima online to star wars the old republic, from earth & beyond to dragon age: inquisitor. i've spent large periods of time finding bugs and helping fix them, finding serious imbalances and helping adjust them into balance, all with the goal of making game play more fun for the players who will partake of the effort of development. these are skills that took years to develop, and i see eve online as the perfect place to set them to work again.quite often i hear people complain about how hard it is to learn to play eve. how the learning curve isn't a curve, it's a slippery wall. while others are turned off by ganking, griefing, and a perceived sociopathic player base. and still others yet that complain that eve is boring, it's grindy, it's all the same stuff over and over again. i'd like to put my experience into play helping to resolve those things, change those things, and help find ways to bridge the gaps that hold back players from going past their trials to a subscription or plexing game time.platform keypoints: (each point will be covered in additional posts)#1) working to undo years of bad word of mouth publicity#2) addition of new modular/mobile structures (ties into #3)#3) revamping of pos mechanics (ties into #2)#4) addressing the new player experience#5) developing events in which players help shape the lore of new eden, and are not just bystanders.other areas i feel need attention.#1) sov mechanics#2) wormhole space#3) inclusivity of new eden lore#4) bringing in functionality from 3rd party programs such as eft into the main client (as well as fixing some bugs in the fitting window)#5) skill training/attributes, overhaul or revamp#6) interface updating, and ease of use/intuitive feel work on the interface/menu system.update (2/22):i've been hearing a number of new players issue about trying to find various things in the menu structures of eve, contracts being an example. i agree that sometimes finding things in the menu system is a pain, and that the interface overall might need some work to make it more intuitive. so i'm adding this to my 'other areas i feel need attention' list."
"platform keypoint 1working to undo years of bad word of mouth advertising.this, in my opinion, will be the hardest thing to do when it comes to eve online. with years of people leaving due to so many reasons. from horrible tutorials making learning to play a job in and of itself, to people who have been ganked, griefed, or left feeling that eve is a place the psychopaths go to play. those experiences shape the way people look at eve, whether they decide to try the game through a trail account, or simply refuse to play at all.eve has many avenues of play available, to many to list quickly, and a great many people of all walks of life and outlooks playing it. but take a quick look on youtube or other video sharing sites for eve videos and what do you find the majority to be? solo gank pvp, small gang pvp, blob fleet pvp, and a mix of 'tutorial videos' which are in large part outdated, and a few of ccp's own trailer videos and some podcasts. basically a small fragment of what eve is, but narrowed to a sliver of pvp, ganking, and commentary.admittedly, a large number of players love pvp. admittedly, commentary and tutorials are a good thing. but, commentary without context is just words. tutorials that are outdated are of limited use. and for players that aren't interested in blob fleet pvp, it's a turn off to see video after video with purple blob vs orange/red blob.what we need is more 'advertising' which shows the full range of things that can be done in eve. from exploration, to industry, to faction warfare, to pve missioning. we need more self policing to help remove the stigma of 'eve is all about ganking and griefing'. we need more positive publicity to show how great eve is, to bring about the change in image that eve has built up over years of word of mouth advertising.i believe it is possible to reverse this bad image in the general mindset of eve by those not playing, and those who are playing trials and thinking of leaving. but it won't be easy, it won't be quick, and it won't happen without the csm's, devs, and players working to remake the image of eve."
"platform keypoint 2addition of new modular/mobile structures.the introduction of the mobile depots and mobile tractor units changed gameplay in fun and interesting ways. they gave players a 'home away from home' with functionality that helped expand gameplay. they allowed for making missioning easier through the automated collection of loot/wrecks. all of this makes for impressive increases in playability of eve online.but it could be expanded, it probably should be expanded.my thoughts comprise this. why stop with the mobile depot? why not expand on the concept and bring in another tier of mobile structures that can be added to in order to increase their use beyond refit/loot horde/temporary base?i want to work on developing the next tier of mobile structures. structures which allow for addition of expansion modules to give further functionality to the mobile structure. shield modules, repair modules, refining modules, lab modules, the list goes on. these mobile structures and their modules would be a middle step between living out of an npc starbase structure and a pos. giving adaptive functionality, without having to deal with sovereignty, massive fuel requirements (though i would like these proposed structures to use some fuel), while letting pos's shine as the 'top tier' for player owned structures.i've seen many wanting changes to pos mechanics, and i agree that pos management is clunky, convoluted, and seriously in need of revamp. a new tier of mobile structures would be a good place to start those changes, giving new options to players, as well as allowing development of new code and systems for player owned structures overall."
"platform keypoint 3revamping of pos mechanics.over the years i've heard a lot of complaints about pos management. how it's unwieldy, clunky, and at times very buggy to deal with. i've personally had 2 pos's over the time(s) i've played eve, and can say that much like corporation management pos management is a major pain in the butt.with the outdated interface/menu structures, non-intuitive setup, and other things being a detractor for some to even think of working with a pos. i agree, pos mechanics need worked on badly. and as i stated in keypoint 2, one way to work on that would be to make an intermediate tier of structures that fall between the mobile depot and the pos.while making an intermediate tier of structures wouldn't immediately fix pos issues, it would allow for development on new systems to replace the legacy systems pos's use. in the long run that could be a better way to work on it than trying to do a bottom up or top down revamp of the pos systems. a parallel system of management that could be eventually adapted to replace existing pos management systems."
"platform keypoint 4addressing the new player experience.i'm pretty sure at this point that no one would say that eve has a tutorial that is engaging, fun, and exciting.i'm also pretty sure at this point that most people would call eve's tutorial a word wall.i remember a time in which aura 'read' the lines of the tutorial text to you. it was great to hear, fun even. made the whole thing less bland and remote.eve needs a much more engaging and fun tutorial experience, that covers more than the pure basics. the tutorial needs clarification, simplification, and expansion to areas not currently covered.the career agents need expanded to further advanced areas covering those unexplained skills and mechanics. a few examples of things needed to be covered include: nanite paste, overheating, use of pos (setting up, management, etc.), r&d, overview setup.eve is one of the worse games i've played when it comes to the new player experience. with massive text wall blocks from aura that after a bit many just turn off, causing them to rely on other players to help them learn. which in turn brings about confusion as a new player doesn't necessarily understand where you are attempting to tell them to click on something, or do something.i'd like to help get the new player experience out of the word wall it is, and into a place where it is engaging, fun, and teaches without feeling like a massive cliff climb learning curve."
"platform keypoint 5.developing events in which players help shape the lore of new eden, and are not just bystanders.eve online has quite a bit of lore, and events which have shaped new eden. sadly the capsuleers have been on the sidelines for most of those things. mentioned, alluded too, even treated as feared enemies... but how many capsuleer players have really had an effect on the shape and course of new eden? not many.i'd like to bring players events which can and do shape the course of new eden. which drive the story forward towards whatever is ahead. wherein players can feel they really are shaping new eden with their contributions.eve's players deserve to feel that what they do really can shake the foundations of the empires, that they really are the demi-gods moving through the aether of new eden."
"there are many areas that could use work in eve. every player has something they would like changed, fixed, revamped, overhauled, adjusted. that's normal in any game, but in a sandbox like eve even small changes can take a lot of time.as a csm i feel i could bring the keypoints i lined out into focus, as well as other areas in which players feel things could be done better. i'd like to be able to help bring about those positive changes which will make eve even better. i can't promise anything more than that i will give my absolute best effort to help bring about the changes that can make eve the best possible gaming experience for it's players.thank you, feel free to ask any questions and i'll definitely answer them if i can.janwa resh"
"why have you been in an npc corp for 5 years and what is your response to people who say that npc corps should be for trial/brand new accounts only?"
"i am."
"as the leader of s2n you are responsible for guiding the overall direction of our alliance. with major sov changes presumably on the horizon, you are responsible for implicitly and explicitly predicting potential outcomes and taking action to position s2n favorably.as a csm member you would know, at least to some extent, the direction s2n should be moving. however, you would be ethically and legally bound to not act on this information. when mittani decided to not seek re-election he cited the conflict of interest and his inability to be the leader gs deserved while serving as a csm member. do you envision the conflicting demands hamstringing your effectiveness in your role with s2n and n3?"
"good question. not an easy answer.the best way to put it is that you have to divorce yourself from the situation as a player between the csm and what you know and can act upon in eve. much of the information there is not actionable, and will clearly impact my ability to be the best decision maker for our alliance and coalition. we absolutely benefit much more from my impact on the shape of changes to come. the chances for things to overlap are absolutely there, which is when i must know to not allow my responsibility for s2n/n3 to come before my responsibility for the game. there are some explicit legalities at play... and i am credentialed irl in a related industry that would absolutely be ruined by me sharing this sort of information and the revelation of this disregard of the nda.the best way to put it is that i could absolutely not be capable of acting on things directly and may need to delegate some decision making if the topic may result in an nda'd item being disclosed inadvertently or acted upon.the sov changes will be out in a devblog i'm sure at some point in the near future."
"from my own dealings with gorga, i can say he's a measured and considered decision maker, and i'm really hoping he'll be part of the csm team next term. if there's someone who can work successfully with a room full of egos and still get **** done, its gorga.i mean look at the people he;s in charge of in nulli and n3 command."
"if he can herd nulli cats, csm is nothing +1"
"don't take this personal or an attack on you directly gorga, but i honestly think that the csm in its current state of operations is nothing more than rubbish.it appears to many players to be just another way for nullblock leaders to sway power in their favor and or get a jump start on countering upcoming changes so the nullblock they are apart of doesn't lose any ground.i have read so many csm candidates' \"platforms\" and what-nots that they all sound the same.. however you are the first person to actually come into this circus and admit they wont be campaigning for radical changes to the structure of the game, force players in certain parts of new eden to endure \"more risk/isk\" factors, or rally to move the major portions of content to their owned space.i wish you well in your journey and task you to look out for us little guys ( the ones that just want to log in have fun and not care about politics)."
"the main failure with regards to the csm is the perception that they can actually make changes to the game. they all campaign about how they're going to fix this or that, when in actuality they have neither the option nor the power to 'fix' anything in the game. the csm are a group of consultants, a sounding board for ccp to speak with about upcoming changes and get an opinion from people who aren't employees of ccp. gorga understands this role, and isn't going to feed you all a bunch of horse-**** to get votes. i can't think of a better person to be giving reality checks to ccp."
"still, it would be pretty nice to get another look at jump fatigue and maybe banning russians from stain for like, 12 months, and force them to actually go elsewhere for once in their lives. can ccp do that?"
"vouch"
"so im not going to bother reading any of your \"campaign promises\" since even if elected you people wont ever get the power to implement your vision of eve. (your getting elected as a consultant not developer). so my question for you is how would you consult? say ccp tells the csm that they are planning on introducing something thats a bad idea for the game at large, for example old aoe doomsday weapon and old type of titan returns removing all chat channels except private messaging (hails) making all stations in high sec destructible. the introduction of a suicide frigate that deals 100k omni damage in a 500m ball (devs insert bad idea here) what would your approach be as far as turning a bad idea into something that actually works for the game."
"thanks for your interest in the csm.don't forget to vote."
"i'll respond to this quite simply by saying, if ccp wants to do it they will do it. our job will not be to tell them how to develop but to advise when asked and help tweak ideas for the masses. if they want to bring back titans to aoe doomsday gods then they'll have reasons. alot of \"what if's\" will solve nothing and not get you any closer to finding who to vote for. the key to finding a candidate for you is to look at those campaign threads and decide based on if their playstyle and logic match yours. check out my podcast! my blog!"
"we can tell ccp its a bad idea and show the possible alternatives or adjustments, but if ccp decides to go ahead anyway theres nothing that can be done. hopefully ccp would tone it down."
"> i have regular experience running a posnoyes, i have lived in a posyes, i have managed a posthe latter two seem orthogonal. i could conceivably answer yes to both of them, but one is not a superset of the other or vice versa. is it too late to revise this question?"
"good point but unfortunately yes it is too late. pick whichever one you feel applies most to you, and feel free to add an explanatory comment with your answer."
"is there a way to remove a person from being applicable under one of the vote match sections? there is one specifically i (and others) has concerns about. i doubt he has a chance in hell of winning, but the guy doesn't do what he is alleging he is doing. i'm more curious of the stance of candidates falsifying both their experience and their voting block (such as highsec candidate who says they have 100% experience in lowsec, when they don't. and i mean absolutely has zero experience outside of avoiding the systems in total).just curious really."
"phoenix is referring to bane cortex, who is clearly not a wormhole candidate and running on that platform. wormholers are advised to not vote for him, and to ignore any lol-able posting that may result from his campaign.that said, corbexx is the wormholer everyone should vote for... and that's about all i can disclose from my \"wh super pac\" advisory board at this time. :pthanks dierdra for doing this each year! you're great."
"not really, ultimately i can't police (or verify) if what the candidates fill in is actually sincere or correct. you can hide the candidate from your own match results if you like however."
"why radu is getting my vote, eve is a game where scamming and trolling is an art that is encouraged, one thing not found a lot in eve is integrity- however that is the one thing that is needed more than anything in a csm member,i have read the whole thread, the detail of the arguments are not as important to me as the responses., and radu has responded at all times in a manner that shows his integrity. if he doesn't know or is unsure he will put his hands up and say so, not try to politician bluff his way through- if he does know , he will put his point across, but will listen and respond to the arguments not blindly push a line- he come across as someone that if a compelling enough argument is put forward he will change his views. he does this at al times in a polite and civil manner.that again is what i am looking for from a csm member.. the willingness to listen to an argument, take on the views and adjust an outlook accordingly.lastly radu is a director of a well respected corps, one that sticks by it values. my only concerns and i hope that radu can address this with his thoughts, is he doesn't seem to be that interested in the null sec sov issue. i would like to hear any thoughts he has on how small amd medium size can hope to attain sov in decent null sec without renting of one of the majors and how them small/medium size alliances can impact more effectively on the huge power blocs sov."
"campaign ad"
"i'm in about 5% agreement with the op.eve is becoming increasingly polarized between the carebears and the pirates. once upon a time, corps typically had a mix of pvp-focused players and industry-focused players who would work together for each other's benefit. hauler's had escorts, mining ops had security, and lowsec industrial poss had defenders. now this is rarely found outside of nulsec (where it's a practical necessity). but in empire space these two groups have little reason to work together. the industrialists are focused on isk/hour and have no desire to build anything other than to sell on the market. the pvpers want to pad their killboards and have no interest in sitting around, guarding a bunch of shiny mining ships, when they could just as easily gank said ships and get their killmails that way. i'm not saying that it's completely gone from empire space; but it is in decline. things are drifting towards creators-vs-destroyers.people play eve for different reasons. many are driven by the primal desire to clash and match wits with other human beings. they love the thrill of combat and the adrenalin rush that comes with risking and fighting over things of value and consequence. others are driven by the primal desire to make things. they love turning barren rocks floating in space into beautiful functional spaceships, and wish to bring civilization to where there is none. i am of the second type. i heard about the massive fleet battles involving thousands of players and the vast, complex player driven economy behind it. but what really sparked my interest was the backstory about humanity reaching out through the stars, through a wormhole to a distant region of space, to where there was nothing by emptiness and asteroids and, not only having to make due, but thriving. i understand and respect the other type of gameplay, and would quite happily build you ships and weapons to further it, but it's not for me (i prefer to have my pvp of the fps variety). when i got into eve i was a bit disappointed to find that everything that needed to be explored, discovered, researched, invented, and built has already been explored, discovered, researched, invented, and built. this is no minecraft in space. but that's a rant for another post.when you think of what makes eve great you probably think of the legendary battles between player empires in nulsec. these are what make headlines and gaming history. but what's important to the current discussion is that they build any fly their own fleets of capital (and sub-capital) ships and destroy them in the great melees that make the new eden economy go round. the key point here is that it's creator/destroyer-vs-creator/destroyer. this is the defining characteristic of a healthy new eden.creators-vs-destoryers sucks for everyone. it sucks for the carebears of obvious reasons. and while it may initially be fun for the pirates, it cause their victims to cry and scream until ccp starts rolling out nerf after nerf to highsec pvp. not good. what needs to happen is for ccp to nudge these groups towards cooperation with each other for mutual benefit.i honestly don't know how to make that happen. but i think a good place to start would be recognize the defining quality of a healthy eve online alliance: that members, as a whole, create and destroy in approximately equal amounts. groups that mostly do one or the other are not healthy. most individuals are biased strongly in one direction or the other, as would most subsidiary corporations of alliances; and that's fine. but the group of players who have agreed to generally not shoot one another, be it alliance or large independent corp, should be balanced."
"[split post. damn character limit.]i think the first step in promoting this is for the server to keep a running tally of all that each player creates and destroys. the creation side would consists of the sum total isk value of what they mine, pull from moon and planets, loot from npc wrecks, purchase from lp stores, salvage, and the delta-$$$ for any material conversion they do (ore refining, manufacturing, reprocessing, etc). the destruction side would consists of the hulls blown up, fittings and cargo that don't survive, and anything they trash. there are other minor factors, but they are insignificant compared to the major ones. the data from all players within an alliance (or independent corp) would then be aggregated and shown in their alliance information as graphical indicator. i imagine two colored bars, blue and red, stretching from the opposite sides of the window and meeting somewhere in the middle. the ratio of blue to red would indicate the balance between creation to destruction that members of the alliance have engaged in. data for individual characters or subsidiarity corps may be shown privatively, but shouldn't appear publicly as it would only distract from what is important. there might also be a historical graph that shows this balance as a function of time. imagine a saw-tooth graph which shows a gradual trend toward the creation side and then a sharp swing towards the destruction side, representing a huge battle and a lot of stuff getting blown up.the next step would be social. it should be recognized that alliances with a good balance are healthy and should be looked upon positively. alliances (or independent corps) which show mostly blue with a tiny bit of red (principally carebears) and those which show mostly red with a tiny bit of blue (principally pirates) should be looked down upon equally. this would hopefully create a desire for highly unbalanced alliances to recruit and assimilate players and smaller corporations of the type needed to bring balance. once that starts happening then perhaps we'll see more carebears building stuff directly for pvpers, rather for their own profit, and more pvpers assisting carebears in their endeavors. (yes, there are and always have been groups that do this, most commonly in nul and wh space. but, sadly, it's only small percentage of all players.)creators-vs-destoryers is eve at its worse. creator/destroyer-vs-creator/destroyer is eve at its best.(sorry for the long rambling post, barely on topic. but lately i've been thinking something similar to what the op asserts (that highsec is disfunctional and lowsec is a wasteland of fear and loathing) and have been thinking about how it could be fixed.)"
"\"eve is a competitive pvp sandbox set is a war-torn futuristic dystopia where we the players fight for power, space and resources. the game is specifically designed to foster conflict between the players everywhere in new eden.\" that exert is exactly what they are referring to. there isn't a lot of war-torn futuristic dystopia anymore. i have lived everywhere in this game for the last 2+ years bouncing here and there trying to find that same love of the game i had when i started playing so long ago.the majority of gameplay i encounter on a day to day basis is not war-torn content, it's scammers trying to steal your isk through the same tired old scams being spammed over and over every 30 seconds day in day out. a stale and uneventful high sec, and nullsec where everyone just mines, missions or rats and docks up when their shiny ship is in danger. sure there are always tidi fleets to protect player space, but not everyone enjoys sitting in a 30% lag for 5+ hours defending a timer.i understand eve has a challenge in every aspect, but to allow the scammers and spammers to run rampant is too much. i detest the trade hubs and i always close my chat boxes when i have no choice but to go there, why? b/c there is nothing of value to read there, everything linked is a scam or someone bitching about being scammed. i mean hell its gotten so far out of hand people are now using their bio to carry their scam everywhere they go, and it even comes equipped with a fake link to their \"wallet\".\"play my game follow the rules and you win, click here for api verified wallet transactions\" but i found those websites and they are designed to falsify the wallet so it will show isk returns when there are none."
"i think the solution here is to join a community with the same interrestest and moralte codexs as you. you cna then help and teach each other avoiding unwanted content."
"no, the op was referring to the ubiquitous existence of pvp as a \"sickness\" in eve. eve has always been a place where everyone is competing with everyone (it's even in the name, everyone vs. everyone!) and that is the same today as it was 11 years ago.now, if you want to claim that eve has some issues with stagnation and malaise, i will not disagree with you. however, in my estimation this is not because there is too much player conflict in eve - it is the exact opposite. a combination of highsec being too lucrative and too safe has drawn many players back to earn an income in near total safety, as well as a lack of compelling sovereignty mechanics to keep players fighting in nullsec has caused there to be a lack of meaningful conflict. just a bunch of veterans grinding isk in highsec incursion and then randomly roaming around outside of highsec looking for consensual and meaningless fights with one another. scams are part of the \"dystopia\" but easily ignored/avoided if that isn't your thing. highsec is too safe to be really interesting as there is no real advantage to joining a corporation and defending it from a wardec, and nullsec has its own issues.i agree that eve definitely has some problems, but too much player conflict isn't one of them."
"i can't take a side. but i will. i'm at odds with myself. i lean toward new player issues considering the skill point differential and learning curve of this game.it would not bother me in the least if new players were given less grief. why would it?some of these hi-sec dudes who camp the trade hubs are a grief to new players.it's in everyone's best interest to dissuade new pilot grievers...griefer....pain in the arses.probably takes one little wormhole, server shard- and both sides can be satisfied.definitely there are more new players in a week than there are these types of \"pilots\".i would bend and lean toward less new pilot grief.an optional space for new pilots. an academy before the academy.don't care though since i'm not a new pilot.wait!i was one once. took about 3 trials before this game stuck.i remember my first hi sec war. i was in a station because the hi sec corp leader said don't go out.rightfully so considering the sociopaths in this game. i do care because i want this game to succeed more than fail.and those kind of pilots, the wannabe mercs are... dare i say-just an alt anyway and you do not risk losing them with a change that can actually retain more pilots than lose."
"where did i repeat and encourage the including of a module to block cargo scans?i listed an example of a ship that does it and how its generally a bad idea to fly because you get hit even if you are empty.maybe you are reading a different thread than i am?"
"thread locked."
"how often and what frequency do you question yourself for playing this game?"
"that is a good solution and more complete then what was defined by the other candidate, that being said i also had my eye on giving meaningful fights to war dec corps so they are more focussed, so my suggestion of time off from war decs based on kills and shots plus this would be a win win, because people must not forget giving content to people who declared the war too and it has to be better than locking people into a war dec where they decide not to log in for a week. blocked: teckos pech, sonya corvinus, baltec1, shae tadaruwa, wander prian, daichi yamato, jonah gravenstein, merin ryskin, linus gorp"
"so you'd like to make wormholes safer?"
"i felt they were pretty insane when i lived in one. i would like to point out that first of all you are in a large worm hole alliance. when you are in a small corp and living there almost solo it is very different.d-scan is your \"eyes\" when you see someone just before they cloak after entering your system or when they log back on and are warping to last position, this gives you a tiny chance to know someone is there.d-scan immunity eliminates that. so, you don't even have the tip off to get to your pos and get out the probing ship.it effectively blinds you, completely. i am not actually clear on your idea. do you mean that if a defender wins a battle that they buy a reprieve in time from the war?"
"when you look at war dec's you have on one side certain entities war decc'ing on a scatter gun type approach to get access to people operating in space, they want kills to keep their players active, they catch stupid people and people that want to fight, the rest just hide up and wait it out. so we have wasted war dec fees on one side and on the other people not playing eve for a week and maybe more.in many cases when a corp does fight other people see that and want to join in, so they start throwing in war dec's, so the industry corp now starts to die as people decamp to npc corps. the people who throw carebears around as a term want to tie all these people into the corp so they can not walk away from the war, they don't care if those people leave the game because as far as they are concerned they are not eve players anyway, but for ccp its a problem.the last war dec i had i looked at my strengths and weaknesses and theirs, i assessed their time zones and did a lot of research on them including activating my scout account and watching them, by day 5 i had gathered the intel to become a major pain, my objective was to cause them issues in one of their activities, in doing so they did not renew the war dec, in fact i could have killed two t3's, but i found it more amusing to make them panic warp. i could do that because i am used to fighting against greater odds and my two pvp accounts are high sp. the intel i got was hard work, but included almost all their rr characters.the issue here is that most hisec corps cannot deal with this, they do not have the will or the sp to do so, or so they believe, but most of all if they do fight back they get dog piled. there is no benefit in fighting back for them.what i wanted to suggest was a mechanism where concord records the defenders pvp activities, be it hits on the enemy ship, kills and even time out in space uncloaked, even losses but this excludes noob ships and shuttles. this gets lumped together and a calculation made to define a value in terms of hours or even days or maybe weeks depending on how active they were.simplistically i thought about applying that to the corp that war decc'd them only, so that this gave them a period of immunity for a period of time based on how well they fought, but having studied a number of corps that had been war decc'd recently i saw plenty of dog piling going on and we should also not ignore the number of one man war decs thrown on as a spoiler, so realised it had to deal with multiple war dec's. the mechanism gets a bit more difficult at this point because of that but could still be worked out with a bit of thought.but my giving time of peace to corps based on their ability and efforts in fighting a war or wars, they could gain the most precious thing in hisec, a breathing space, which is something that i hope certain types of people would go for, thus giving content to the people that war dec.hopefully leading to less scatter gun war decs and a benefit from engaging no matter your skills.i read the comments by corps that war dec and understood their issues, but its like so many things in this game, as soon as you try to build something the pressure hits you as you just start because there are too many bored big groups looking for something to shoot and then you fail before you start, and most people in what they define as the carebear group want to play a game which is not always death, but eve is a pvp game in the main so they need something that is a benefit from fighting, there is nothing in terms of defending a war dec at the moment.personally i like the challenge of this game against people who have the mechanics all on their side even though when you read the forums you would think otherwise, but if you are under the cosh day after day, its no longer a game its an ordeal and how many people can stand that. blocked: teckos pech, sonya corvinus, baltec1, shae tadaruwa, wander prian, daichi yamato, jonah gravenstein, merin ryskin, linus gorp"
"you're not stupid, so i can only assume that you know how blatantly broken this would be in favor of the defender. just undock a freighter or something else expensive, sit on the dock point, then if trouble arrives, dock back up, to rack up free immunity points.between this and so many other mechanics strongly weighed in favor of the defender, it would make wardecs functionally pointless."
"as most engagements (edit change to- as far as i understand a lot of engagements) in hisec happen on the undock then its down to the attacker to drive them off of it, but yes it can be gamed like so many mechanics in eve. in any case the points from just being in space could be adjusted to be less from being on the undock.also the war dec's come to an end then the immunity applies, there may have to be a period where no new war dec's can go in so that the break occurs, but the thing is to give the people a reason to come out and fight even though they will get their butts kicked. blocked: teckos pech, sonya corvinus, baltec1, shae tadaruwa, wander prian, daichi yamato, jonah gravenstein, merin ryskin, linus gorp"
"steve,this year i'm starting to have a look at the running csm candidates in a bit more depth, and i've written a short review of your campaign, which can be found here."
"\o/:hug:thanks. with the volume of candidates this year, analysis is going to be handy for other people. (and you say nice things about me.)"
"finally, a proper candidate from proviblock. congratulations on running for csm, vaari. question: given that you are indeed the earl of sosan vii, it is odd to see you running for the csm. would you not consider joining the csm to be a step down given all the titles you have already earned via your service to amarr? additionally, if you do indeed deem the csm a worthy bloc of people to join, is it even possible for you to join if you are not the chairman of the csm? i cannot imagine one such as vaari serving under some riff-raff from goonswarm, for example. if you are not able to get enough votes to be chairperson, how do you plan on seizing the title otherwise?"
"if im elected to the csm, im to be addressed as \"your worship\" when matter is on csm topics. otherwise i simply ignore the questions and comments. it is not stepping down. many nobles has hold numerous titles who are not equa. for examle our gracious majesty, jamyl i holds the title of empress of the amarr empire. she also no doubt hold countless of titles below that primary title. she may be duchess, jarlessa, baroness and so one. her lesser titles do not make her primary title any less lesser. im still inexperienced what csm's do, so it would be bad leadership to claim the leading position right away. i however promise to scheme if i can dethrone current heretic from the position of chairman. if im ever elected to the leading position to the csm, all those who wish to take part to the elections must be agreed by me before anyone can vote for them"
"last i checked, earls are beneath kings, so you will address me as \"your majesty\".second, your entire campaign seems like a troll thread, so you will certainly be dismissed by any voting population that matters. if this is simply you rp'ing, then i encourage you to understand that you will work with real people in (potentially) real life if elected. rp has its place, in intergalactic summit, for example, or even ingame, but not when you are serving on the csm.if you told me to address you a certain way or you'd ignore my question, i'd laugh at you and dismiss you like any peasant i happened across rolling in the muck and mire in the streets of the bob-forsaken wastelands of k-space. until you get on the level of the enlightened of bob, you know nuthin', jon snow."
"you are free to vote whoever criminal you wish. if im elected, i will represent my peasants on my terms, and you cannot do anything to it. im sure there are plenty of people who are tired to choose between naked and rags. to correct any misunderstandings. if im elected my planetary assistant who represents me is no way high noble and not even csm, so he must not be addressed as worship. it is just me."
"as you can clearly see, plebe, i have a refined taste in attire, as do many within my circles. you also mistake your position, as would many with the simple-mindedness you clearly display.i, like many, can do plenty to thwart your already futile attempt to influence the course of this election process. mark these words that you will never see the halls of the csm.enjoy your rags... /rpjust to be clear, you really won't get elected with this campaign. i would posit that xenuria gets more votes, and that is saying something."
"let the god decide if im elected or not. if not, i try again with same campaign."
"i am fully behind these socially very important changes. only thing i would add is more bushy moustaches. my vote goes to vaari!"
"make your corporation members vote me too."
"+1 for lord vaari"
"then you have just secured my votes as well.good luck tora, and thank you for running!"
"a few days until the voting starts. seems i have to try harder to be evil"
"good luck in improving highsec!you can always find me on the forum section of minerbumping.com :o)"
"bam is a top guy, and a gret advocate of the community. vote bam!"
"agreed +1"
"+1 autz csm"
"+1 au csm"
"+1 bam"
"nice job bam"
"bam for president!"
"bam is our man! vote bam or i will find you"
"+1 bam, great community worker!"
"thunder bams are go! this guy deserves your support! why? he supports the community, not it is time for us to give back to him!"
"bam supported our fledgling canberra community for our first ever canberra meetup last year and he is supporting us again for our second meet next month. he provided advertising of the event through the eve downunder fb page, in game edu motd, the edu radio show and some awesome prizes through eve-bet.com for people that turned up. bam 4 csm!"
"it was such a pleasure to listen to bam speak about his eve community work on the hydrostatic podcast i can't recommend that enough. he comes across as such an enterprising guy. along with the sugars and the corbexes, bam is getting my vote."
"haha wow... this kind of blew my mind. i logged in to the forum and the notification said there'd be 12 new posts overnight and i was like... what??thanks so much guys. :)eve down under - a community for players in the autz"
"if you have lived in a wormhole in the last year, you already know how much he has does as csm. if you haven't lived in a wormhole, this guy cares and spends huge amounts of his time for players, from listening to their concerns to tirelessly running tests on sisi. if no one else i vote for gets elected, i won't worry as long as he's there."
"ccp to give out a new shuttle and trinketsf in honor of ten years of csm!i would have preferred that ccp give the diplomatic shuttle bpc to those accounts that will vote, and the trinkets to everyone on feb 25th, but kuddos for the efforts to raise awareness about the csm and the importance of voting...ccp va c<U+FFFD>lebrer les 10 ans du csm en donnant des bpc d'une nouvelle navette diplomatique et des bibelots r<U+FFFD>f<U+FFFD>ren<U+FFFD>ant tous les noms des membres de chaque csm jusqu'<U+FFFD> ce jour.j'aurais pr<U+FFFD>fer<U+FFFD> que ccp donne la navette diplomatique <U+FFFD> ceux qui voteront, et les bibelots <U+FFFD> tous les joueurs actifs le 25 f<U+FFFD>vrier, mais malgr<U+FFFD> cela, bravo pour leurs efforts pour am<U+FFFD>liorer la visibilit<U+FFFD> du csm et l'importance de voter."
"just because ccp allows a mechanic doesn't mean it's not complete bullshit. tacking without invoking aggression or generating a kill right is bullshit. -10's operating with impunity in secure space is like giving charles manson free admission to any social function he desires instead of keeping him locked up where he belongs. the most hilarious part is the fact you quote james 315 and think he is to be taken seriously, who next in the sociopath's hit parade? erotica1?and before you get too uppity i have lived in high, low and null security space and accept the benefits and limitations involved in each. when it comes time to fight i have no problems doing so on my combat alt. tell me again about how being narrow-minded is \"defending the sandbox.\" it amuses me."
"i'm genuinely interested in hearing what csm members think about eve's vision because at the moment it seems building stargates is something only the huge corps and alliances can consider. mike said he is about high sec and smaller groups of players. i want to know what he would like those groups of players to be able to do as part of this \"vision\"."
"there, i read it and i want that few minutes of my life back. it's exactly what you would expect it to be. it's a guy still crying about carebears and themeparks, and going though basically every fallacy there is in a post that could have been summed up n page 1. essentially he believe that any change to help with highsec player retention is part of path which will inevitably remove all risk from highsec. the problem with that is that even the players campaigning for changes which reduce risk in areas are adamant that there should always be risk, but apparently they can;t be believed. essentially his problem is that he wants people to live in what is effectively lowsec, but doesn't want to go though the pain of moving to lowsec.he also makes terrible analogies, like comparing total safety in highsec to removing the ability to die from an fps. except there are still 3 areas of space you wouldn't be able to die in. more accurately, if highsec were made completely safe (which it shouldn't be) it would be more akin to having a safe spawn point, which is a feature used by several fps games to great effect.i'm convinced he wasn't even there for incarna, since he seems to have the impression that the main issue there was wis. the main issue was the potential threat of the game turning into a microtrans model which would effectively be flipping to a completely different type of playerbase. wis it'self isn't a particularly terrible idea - or at least it wasn't, on ccp reduced staff numbers now it probably would be.he also talks about how making the game less risky in highsec will drive away veteran players. what he fails to realise is that he's a shining example of that not actually being true. he's been complaining about how ccp caters to carebears for years, and yet still hasn't quit. like it or not, ccp could do basically anything they want to help with new player retention, and the vets would still remain, even if they grumbled more. i'm pretty sure that when i'm old, grey and dying, my last breath will be \"make sure chribba gets my assets for plex 4 good.\""
"my only concern would be making sure that such a war system does not invalidate the \"i'm smacking you down because you made me mad\" wars. beyond that, i think the points you mentioned here warrant further discussion. this is probably not the best place to go into greater details of such a discussion though.i'm adding you to my list of \"people to meet at fanfest.\" and yes i have an actual list."
"lol, no thanks. you pushed for a shitstorm that not only didn't kill multiboxing, but only created more problems and spawned a terrible rift between many players and ccp. why would we want that again this year?"
"+1 you have my votes."
"my negative post on cagali's application was deleted by an isd because for some reason we can't post in-game correspondence.basically the tl;dr is that he kicked my alt from brave newbies after my main left before i had a chance to evac my stuff.the reason? i referred to making money as 'jewing' and he called me a 'stupid f**king idiot'.i posted the same logs on a reddit post recently and everyone agreed that he is not the kind of person we want on our csm.to isds, if you're going to snip out correspondence, only snip out the correspondence and don't ever edit my post to look like positive praise for a player that is clearly an a**hat.you deleted the correspondence and half my post to try to look clever."
"he is my ten seconds or less answer as well. he has been a great partner this year and we work amazingly well together."
"new crossing zebras podcast with endie and i. have a listen:"
"thanks for all the nice words guys!"
"please put the cosmos agents / mission on ccpgames radar for updating to, then you got my vote"
"most long haul flights have wifi now so now i have something to do rather than watching the same movies over and over again in all seriousness, i will be transitioning to a new role with my employer come the new financial year so nowhere near as many flights to strange and exotic lands (fortunately or unfortunately depending on how you look at it), this year the stars are lined up and personal life, work life and eve life are all permitting me to commit the necessary time to be an effective csm member."
"i missed your post, sorry about that. thanks for the support!"
"ash, you're on my ballot you're an ideas guy i know, despite this i feel that it's necessary to push for a more engaging, integral new player experience, to provide a bridge to the demands of corp life. in which case i'm going to completely overlook that you are clearly an imaginative and vital personality, because i believe that you also have the patience and the dogged enthusiasm to push this to ccp who will no doubt be driven by overwhelmingly serious nullsec block csm with admittedly critical concerns.to comment on comments made elsewhere: eve is not 'age of conan', to extend a metaphor, if age of conan had a well made bridge to an blank facade eve has rickety old rope bridge to xanadu. i think ash will provide npe relief from the very important work being done on sov this year!"
"hahahae. that flying bee"
"alyx is good people. he gets my vote."
"listened to the wh townhall, couldn't be there myself. i am concerned with a few of your ideas. namely:drama within the csm. you are not there to police them. there is bound to be disagreements and they are healthy.npe. we're talking about from day one to a couple of months here right? wormholes are not an new player thing. they don't have the skills to survive or be useful at that age. they can't run the sites effectively, can't pvp against things like t3's (for arguments sake) and they have no clue of game mechanics. these are things that are needed off the bat for living in a wormhole.i agree there needs to be more advertisement for wormhole space for new players, but new players are not useful to themselves. to this extent they would get very bored, very quickly.sovereignty. as wormholers, personally i think we should be very careful about this type of topic. we don't like it when nullsec people, who do not live here, have a say in the day to day running of the way we live. slippery slope.---okay so a couple of questions. do you feel wormholes are in a good shape currently and why?obviously lower class wormholes have been looked at a fair bit this year. which possibly means that a look at higher class holes is coming. what do you feel are the three big things that need changing in higher class holes? why do these things need changing and how would you propose they are changed.how would you push for more pvp encouragement in wormhole space / do you think that there needs to be something added that would encourage more pvp to happen in wormhole space?"
"\"drama within the csm. you are not there to police them. there is bound to be disagreements and they are healthy.\"in any organisation there will be always be disagreements and not liking the people who you work with, that's life. what you do need to be is professional and work with people regardless of your views of them. \"npe. we're talking about from day one to a couple of months here right? wormholes are not an new player thing. they don't have the skills to survive or be useful at that age. they can't run the sites effectively, can't pvp against things like t3's (for arguments sake) and they have no clue of game mechanics. these are things that are needed off the bat for living in a wormhole.i agree there needs to be more advertisement for wormhole space for new players, but new players are not useful to themselves. to this extent they would get very bored, very quickly.\"the idea is as part of the exploration mission arc that you can do is to introduce you to wormhole space. by get you to scan down a wormhole which is instanced just for you so you can enter it and be tought to bookmark, scan and do some easy sites.the new opportunities system which they have just announced instead of the mission system could make this harder, i will have to look at the new system on sisi.\"sovereignty. as wormholers, personally i think we should be very careful about this type of topic. we don't like it when nullsec people, who do not live here, have a say in the day to day running of the way we live. slippery slope.\"as much as we like our wormholes been sov-less, every where else has sovereignty of one kind or another and it effects or interaction with k-space ie pvp, logistics etc etc.\"okay so a couple of questions. do you feel wormholes are in a good shape currently and why?\"over all yes, there was some panic over the changes to wormholes and some people left. we got use to it now and things are picking up.\"obviously lower class wormholes have been looked at a fair bit this year. which possibly means that a look at higher class holes is coming. what do you feel are the three big things that need changing in higher class holes? why do these things need changing and how would you propose they are changed.\"there has been much improvement on the lower system, c4 space once the dearth of wormhole space are now thriving. c5 and c6 need a bit of work but not by much. tweaks to the sleeper sites to make them more random, i don't think that ccp would give us sleeper dreads to fight.\"how would you push for more pvp encouragement in wormhole space / do you think that there needs to be something added that would encourage more pvp to happen in wormhole space?\"the pvp is good when you get it, it's nearly always who gets the most wins. that is the same all over eve. however there is a problem that i see is when you find people to fight and they pos up, they see too much risk for little reward. theres no easy answer for that and you can't fix it."
"finally my capstable interview has been posted."
"good interview, ariete. you'll have a spot high on my list for csm.i would encourage all wormholers to listen to this interview - i think it does a much better job at laying out ariete's positions than either the thread or the town hall that has been posted. i think ariete will be a good #2 to corbexx this year and i think we all want two wormholers, so vote them #1 and #2!author of interstellar privateer shattered planets, wormholes and game commentary"
"i've updated my thread with scaurus' analysis of my csm campaign."
"lets look at this as two questions, which is what it really is.why have i been in an npc corp for 5 years?there are a lot of good reasons to be in a npc corp, as many as there are for reasons to be in a player corp. can't be wardecced, don't have to deal with sov issues, ready access to helpful advice in corp, all good reasons to remain in cas. on the other hand there are quite a few reasons to join a player corp: sov warfare, ready access to pvp fleet activity, ready access to helpful advice in corp, lower taxes (generally), better access to pos refining/construction.for me, cas has always been the best starter corp. lots of veteran players that are helpful in their advice. many former cas members available in the castabout alliance for access to nullsec pvp fleeting, pos useage, and other things. plus cas is overall a fun place to be due to the varied personalities within it.i've stayed in cas because cas has been a welcoming and friendly place, with plenty of group activity, and even with higher taxes (11%) it's worth that 1% tax hike just to not be constantly wardecced. have i thought about joining a player corp? yes, many times, i've turned down dozens of invitations to corporations over the years to be honest. all because i've yet to find a corporation that gives as much benefit as cas has.what is my response to people who say that npc corps should be for trial/brand new accounts only?forcing people into player corps won't help retention of players. most starter/bloodline corps are places people stay in for a day, week, month, while trying to find other player corps to be in. yet cas has people, active people, who have been playing since the first days of eve online. the reason? cas does as much as a player corp with few of the downsides (wardecs, sov issues, politics). in the end i have to wonder if the ones yelling loudest for npc corps to be limited to a certain age of character might be due to jealousy, or regret in having left their initial npc corp.i've always felt it is a mistake to push disadvantages at a player in a game to force an outcome. in this case pushing people to join a player corp. currently the npc corps have 11% tax, higher than typical player corps, as a nudge towards joining a lower tax player corp. doesn't really work out that way though, since the no wardeccing aspect of npc corps is worth a lot more than 1% tax."
"have you submitted your paperwork to be on the ballot?is there a reason you waited until the last minute to enter the race for a seat?"
"yes, submitted my application before the deadline. there was an issue with getting one piece of paperwork in, which delayed entry finalization to last minute unfortunately. but those issues are have been dealt with and all application paperwork submitted within deadlines."
"please elaborate on your ideas for the following: what could ccp do to encourage someone like yourself to get out of an npc corp? it sounds like the main benefit to you is immunity to war decs. since ccp has voiced a specific desire to get people out of npc corps, what is your thought around how to make npc corps a less-attractive long-term option? you mention \"wormhole space\" in your secondary terms - please detail what exactly you think needs doing or prevention from doing. you mention \"inclusivity of new eden lore\" - what do you mean by that phrase and what would you suggest to change it? author of interstellar privateer shattered planets, wormholes and game commentary"
"1) the primary reason many stay in a npc corp has little to do with wardecs at all, but the fact that there are some really great people in them that have been playing for years. the social aspect of such varied and interesting people, enjoying being able to talk at any time (when online) is very attractive; and any mechanic that forces people to leave what they consider to be 'home' without very good justification will push people away. and in many cases those people are able to find 'sub groups' that work together missioning, pvping, mining, most anything you could do as part of a player corp.while ccp may want people to leave npc corps to player corps over staying in a npc corp, the truth is some people just won't want to go. they've invested time into making a place for themselves in the npc corp they've stayed in. much like the time and effort put in by players in player corps they have been in long term. there isn't a lot of carrot given to entice people out of a player corp, say what you will some people just don't want to deal with politics, wars they have no say in, or the cult of personality that might exist outside of an npc corp.things that might help encourage people to join player corps would include a number of things. a) such as the ability to set a corp as non-combatant, and members being disallowed from initiating pvp activity completely (save defensive combat when attacked first), or even giving rr/boosts to third parties involved in pvp activities. non-combatant corps also being immune to wardecs, including those against an alliance (and unable to help in an alliance war with logi/boosts/etc). b) additional information available on corps in the corp window, including information such as average security status of the membership, preferred activities (pvp, missioning, exploration, etc.) which can be filtered in the corp search. c) the ability for players to leave a corp within the first week of having joined, and return to the starter corp they were in as opposed to the bloodline corp, with an opt out option when leaving the player corp. after that initial week (or if they opt out), the character would go to bloodline corp. as bloodline corps tend to be short term landing pads for people who jump around corps, they are more in line with people wishing to return to a player corp. this would allow a player to decide if they made a mistake to go back to the place they started, in which they likely have some level of comfort in, before deciding to leave the nest again. this would remove the 'all or nothing' feeling of leaving a starter corp, and encourage people to join player corps in the knowledge that if it isn't a good fit they will be able to 'go back to the start' as it were.2) wormhole space is an incredible thing for eve. while on one hand it seems to have been intended more as a highway and day trip set of locations, on the other players saw the potential to move in and 'own' pieces of it for themselves. this is pretty awesome as a concept, shortcuts to other places, yet the possibility to have your own little kingdom in the middle of who knows where. i think that wormhole space could do with more attention, additional mysteries to discover and unravel, as well as some changes to anomalies and signatures to put ore sites back to signatures rather than anomalies.wormhole space is a perfect place to add in new concepts for exploration and new types of sites to discover. possibly new ways to escalate from a site, say to a connected 'adjacent' wormhole. wormhole space just seems like the perfect canvas to try new things, or expand upon existing concepts.3) eve's lore has grown since before it's release to this day and will continue to grow. but, the vast majority of it happens as if the capsuleers are the big bad guys or the knights in shining armor, yet it seems very often that the actions of capsuleers really don't affect much overall. what i mean by inclusivity of new eden lore is that there should be more events, and/or activities, in which players can help shape the lore of new eden. change the streams course as it were. this is a sandbox, but outside of some sovereignty map changes not much really changes due to player actions.wouldn't it be incredible as a player to be involved in an event, on the side of whatever faction or empire brings it about, in which they can feel their actions helped set the course of something major in new eden? a change of solar system rule, or elevating some person to a position of power (hmm... gallente presidential election comes to mind), possibly discovering something that could shake things up (a new module bpo, or ship design) that only a select few gain through their hard work (by literally working through the event and earning it as the reward).i know that as an eve player 'i' would absolutely love to be involved with things like that. knowing that my actions helped decide a direction that the 'world' moves in. and i'm sure many many others would feel the same.thanks for the interesting queries, i do hope my answers satisfy the questions you gave me.janwa resh"
"hi!i'm a long-time ceo and many-year alliance leader, and i've decided to run for the csm. i'm a game programmer and a game designer in real life, so i have a lot of experience with the kinds of issues i would have to deal with as a csm member. i am also a very good communicator, and will have no trouble conveying my thoughts and ideas.as far as the game itself goes, my main priorities at this time would be balance and finance.i'd like to see more of eve's systems balanced to keep the various bartle types of players happy in the game, which leads to a healthier playerbase.in terms of finance, the biggest thing i think eve needs is a way to trade stocks reliably. a functioning stock market would be a great player-driven system to have. this would of course require an overhaul of the current system of what owning stocks allows players to do.while my corp has tended to be on the carebear side of the game over the years, this does not mean that i would be for tilting the game's systems in favor of passive playstyles. i am a firm believer that it is the danger presented by other players in the game that makes building so rewarding. while i think there are a few places where the balance leans a bit too far in one direction, i would not favor moving too far in the other as a means of \"fixing\" it.as i also favor concise communitcations, i will keep this short and sign off now. i check my evemail and this form about once per day, so expect responses to take about that long to come through.norjia"
"have you submitted the necessary paperwork to get onto the ballot?is there a reason you got into the race so late?on the subject of stocks and the stock market, what do you see as the shortfalls of the current system and what additional features would you like to see? also, in your ideal world, would ccp have to actively monitor the stock market and act as a regulatory body?on the bartle scale, what type of gamer do you believe eve offers the least support for, and why?"
"i have submitted the paperwork, yes. i had decided a while ago to run, but i wasn't sure if i would come in for 10 or 11. i decided last week to do 10.i imagine the stock market fixing the current problem that shares can only be given. there's no way to trade them reliably among people who don't know or trust each other. i don't see ccp needing to regulate it in the same way they don't regulate things like evebank or the big lottery. you still don't know if you can trust the stock to pay dividends or be in a real operating company instead of a ponzi scheme. but that's a much more interesting problem to work through than \"will i actually get the stock or will i just lose my money\". with the ability to see a stock's value and dividend history, potential buyers would have some data to go on.another issue is the means that stock owners can use to call votes to replace corps' ceos. this would require a serious overhaul, as the current system means you'd only want to issue stock in alt-held holding corps.i would say achievers have the least support from eve as a game system. since eve is so massive, it's clear that explorers have plenty to do. socializers can join the rp alliances and chat all they want without leaving the station. and killers... well, they have plenty of targets all over the galaxy."
"i believe you are the executor for your alliance. some past and current members have stated that being a member of the csm is like having a second job. ccp leeloo said on a recent podcast that the csm duties can take up to 10-20 hours a week. if elected, will you have the time to devote to serving on the csm?"
"bartle's model is getting a bit long in the tooth. i prefer nick yee's along with the newer studies done around the usefulness of bartle.that said, this is a csm campaign, so instead of indulging in psychological theory, i'll play along.using bartle's model, explain what you think the biggest need is within each type, and what you would champion for ccp to do to address that.author of interstellar privateer shattered planets, wormholes and game commentary"
"there is a lot of good that can be accomplished by the csm, even if many may view it as rubbish. the dynamic viewpoints that can be offered up to ccp is something they will not be able to get out of their development teams and internal groups. additionally, developer <> player communication directly tends to have a lot of noise. csm <> player communication in some forms can also be information saturation, but if the csm tries to be accessible they may be able to get a lot of good information. i plan on being as available as possible."
"+1 for gorga.for not running with \" i will fix xxx\"."
"here's your ad."
"as a neutral bystander, i whole-hardheartedly support and endorse . pantsufan is a true representation of the average nullsec joe, and would well represent their thoughts, ideas, and concerns in the csm. he is sure to bring a new spark of life to the csm and delight capsuleers all across new eden!"
"oh damn its pants for csm x !!! howdy pants ?took part in delve siege and kinda stopped playing for a time, still we had fun in skeleton crew ^^usually i don't participate in csm election, but hey, i might make an exception this year, if you're a candidate.gl =)edit: i suppose it kinda means i endorse you ^^"
"love the comet mining idea, you got my vote source:"
"campaign ad"
"trink has my vote."
"once you are going against 200 man capital fleets, dreads have the ability to alpha carriers off the field very easily. a hundred battleships can alpha a carrier. additionally, the current siege module doesn't nerf tracking, at all. what about supers? by folding the hull bonuses into triage, which super carriers can't fit, you lose any benefit of being immune to ewar when it comes to fleet repairing. your proposed changes would utterly gut the carrier class because you can't handle dealing with 200 man capital blobs. fleet repair becomes exceedingly difficult in lowsec for small gangs. and repairing structures will demand a support fleet, because no sane pilot will use a non triaged carrier solo when a t2 cruiser will out rep it and be less vulnerable. instead of demanding that the ships be nerfed, try looking at the mechanics of remote rep instead. i can assure you that being unable to kill a ship under massed repair isn't an issue only dealt by capital ships. guardian chains can be just as infuriating to subcaps."
"if we are throwing out ideas of how to fix it.... how about allow corps to make custom items? take all the items in the game and allow player corps to pick so many bpo's or bpc's and they can make upgraded versions of them like a 4x. takes so many ppl, research outposts, and a huge supply chain of materials to keep the research going. pvp players want better weapons and ships but they need ppl with research skills and industry skills to keep them supplied and the research bonuses coming. not much in the way of graphics required. instead of tech ii icons put the corp icon there. the more people reseaching the more stats can be changed. conflicts have more meaning since you could lose months of research if a specific pos goes down. you can always replace a lost bpo or bpc now, but not reseach on the cutting edge. call it.... invention! and call invention... tech ii refits. should require a lot of busy work: data core running from your corp hq to your research stations and back, various scavenger hunt style weekly missions for research bonuses, prototype testing, hiring and management of non-capsuleer staff, running missions for specific npc corps or factions for access to their research. this would shake a lot of things up. the market would skew to who ever was doing the most research in each field. some corps might limit their tech to corpmates only and use it as a draw for recruiting. supplies would be limited since only one corp is producing the item for all of new eden. allow for reverse engineering to steal research from data cube transfers, research outposts, or prototypes, and consequences for the corp who lost them. so many options for what amount to 1-3 variable changes to ships or ship equipment. if an alliance has enough hulls in its member corps maybe a custom alliance ship like a pirate faction. takes large networks of active accounts and the skills in the required reseach fields. if your the small guys, try to find areas ppl aren't selling on the market and fill that niche... the progress won't be as fast but you could always reverse engineer to speed your progress. makes for targeted wardecs where people wanna steal your research or hurt your market dominance.just a few ideas that seem like they could bring the 2 sides of eve together."
"the \"dirty little secret\" of most pvpers is that they already have a \"miner/indy/trader/hauler guy.\"sometimes this person is an alt of the pvper... sometimes it is an actual person. either way... what separates these characters from their miner/indy/trader/hauler peers is that they...- are willing to accept risk as it comes (even if it means lower profits).- talk, communicate, and work out deals with the pvpers they are supplying.- understand that no matter how powerful his/her pvp friends are, \"safety\" can not be guaranteed. so it is up to that character to take preventative action and/or stay within \"we're coming to save you\" distance from friends and allies.- (continuing from the last point) understand that in order to take preventative actions they have to know how pvpers operate and what mechanics they typically use. this usually requires the miner/indy/trader/hauler to pvp a little bit (much the same way a \"pure\" pvper has to take a crash course in economics and industry to buy/sell stuff on the market).the rub is that there are more than a few miners/industrialists/traders/haulers that do not want to adapt in this fashion because it \"interferes\" with the way they want to play... which usually does not include pvp in any way, shape, or form... which is silly because they are affecting pvpers in their own way and literally asking to not be affected back.the current issue is mainly based on perception and principle... not actual mechanics."
"well written, that is the shift that has left highsec in this state. very few mixed focus corporations remain in highsec. most of these groups either moved to nullsec or were destroyed from within by awox groups. i do not believe that the anti awox button will fix this. some of the better strategies to awox are not through shooting corp mates, but through misleading and misinformation. then leading groups to their destruction against a larger force. i feel that corporation play is completely unnecessary and redundant in empire space."
"you didnt but then i never said you did in the first place."
"i can agree to this intent, though i would say defenders need to score some kills .... and maybe have higher isk win.that might make undocking shiny worth it to buy time to earn more. risk and reward."
"never don't vote for steve.let those who will complain about the meta or bloc votes or politics. steve has done a whole bunch of work to get technical issues sorted out and made eve better for everyone. if he's not in your top 5, you haven't thought carefully about this."
"i'm curious because over the past year ccp has hinted at development into this area: what experience do you have with delegating/subcontracting parts of the industry chain to other players/entities?"
"other than (once) having someone contract me for a bunch of 425mm rails, none. (they ended up not taking them. which left me a few hundred million down)i'd love to see an ability to contract production out, with contracts which, once accepted, have x days to have delivery, and cannot be cancelled. maybe with collateral from both sides, for completion."
"i really like the upcoming changes to new player experience. congrats to csm ix for participating to what seems like a good way to improve this experience. i particularly like that people will start in a ship in space, warping to their own anomaly, instead of inside a station without a spaceship...i just hope that they won't be able to be probed in that starting anomaly and no griefer can mess with their first experience, until, of course they leave it after having acquired some basic rudiments (including not shooting at somebody targeting you, having learned that being targeted is different than being shot at...)je trouve la nouvelle approche du jeu qui est present<U+FFFD>e dans le dernier post de ccp plut<U+FFFD>t bien. bravo au csm ix pour leur participation dans ce qui semble <U+FFFD>tre une am<U+FFFD>lioration majeure de cette premiere exp<U+FFFD>rience.j'appr<U+FFFD>cie tout particuli<U+FFFD>rement que les nouveaux joueurs d<U+FFFD>marreront dans un vaisseau de novice, warpant sur une anomalie qui leur sera sp<U+FFFD>cifique, au lieu de d<U+FFFD>marrer en station sans vaisseau...j'esp<U+FFFD>re juste que les nouveaux ne pourront pas <U+FFFD>tre prob<U+FFFD>s dans leur anomalie de d<U+FFFD>part, et qu'aucun griefer ne pourras venir d<U+FFFD>ranger leur premi<U+FFFD>re exp<U+FFFD>rience, jusqu'<U+FFFD> ce qu'ils quittent cette anomalie de d<U+FFFD>part apr<U+FFFD>s avoir acquis quelques rudiments de base (incluant de ne pas tirer sur quelqu'un qui vous cible, en ayant appris que <U+FFFD>tre cibl<U+FFFD> est diff<U+FFFD>rent que de se faire tirer dessus...)"
"mike,why should you serve another term as csm? what do you have to bring to the table that a newer younger member of the community couldn't. wouldn't you think that newer players would have a better feel for improving the npe that the game needs?don't you feel that maybe this should be the year you step down and pass the torch?"
"i did spend some time asking myself that same set of questions. i bring experience, contacts, and continuity. i bring a long history of involvement with the csm and a sense of the changes and direction that it is traveling. i have seen iterations of the npe and look forward to helping with the new one as it grows.do we need some new blood on the csm? hell, yes. but it needs to be tempered by experience. it needs people to bring the new council members up to speed. that is why i am still running. or one of the reasons, there are others.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"we think you have some qualities to be again in csm.you just have to be more confident in some new features as we talked about before.and, then, with this, i am sure you will be able to bring also what a new player could bring in csm.even if you didn't answer on these points in our last thread, we believe you are enough open-minded to speak about these points in csm x.don't disappoint us on these points !best regards."
"my experience of working with mike was that the csm was better for him being there. he's outside any consideration of bloc politics. he brings a valuable, all-too-rare perspective to the table: the well informed, considerate, thoughtful hi-sec player. he's mindful of the \"little guy\" who experiences being the solo minnow in a sea full of sharks, but he's by no means a simplistic \"nerf the pee vee pees\" raging carebear.god dambit vote mike, you fools. we need him."
"i hope providence block has two csm after this election."
"1.0"
"the new bro agenda is a high priority for me this year and will strongly influence who gets my vote in the csmx election. you'll have a slot on my slate but assuming brave rallies on your behalf, i reckon you shouldn't have any problems getting a seat. i can envision the many ways you might bring your experience with new bros to bear on csm discussions. since it seems we can expect csmx to be involved in lots of discussion about sov changes this year, what do you hope to bring to that discussion?what are your thoughts about the opportunities dev blog released today?"
"i may not always agree with cagali's quest to make everyone feel at home in brave, but without his amazing work with all the fantastic newbies we have eve would be a lot less welcoming to new players. if there's anyone who's gonna really help especially new players and make sure they get the voice they deserve.vote cagali cagali for csm!"
"endie, he's a goon even his enemies believe in. a toast: to better thrones +1 you're on my ballot."
"good luck endie.i sincerely hope that you, manny, and corebloodbrothers get elected and are able to ensure ccp get it right with regards to the nullsec fix. i fear that if ccp screws this up, it will be the final nail in the coffin for eve online. i hope they appreciate this.you have my vote."
"just posting to say why arent others posting?"
"what's to say - put manny in your voting preferences.and your heart!"
"thanks malcalypse for all the support"
"<3 +1"
"bob is a good man, and what i believe is most important for a csm is social activity, which bob is in spades.if you want a csm that will talk to you and answer your questions, vote bob."
"very good duder and now runs the most credible eve news site on the internet thanks to le martini's decline"
"i loved your interview...definitely giving you one of the first four slots on my ballots. your enthusiasm and creative approach to problem solving are appealing and you would bring an engaged newer player perspective to the csm which i don't think it has had the benefit of before. good luck!"
"an important question. as i stated in the interview it's important these people do not receive a ridiculous in-game advantage, since ccp should not be using its marketing to play favorites, as it were. in my background as both a marketer and a gaming \"journalist\", there are a few approaches i've seen. the most common is simply to give players a free \"review copy\" of the game with an agreement that the content creator will produce a set number of videos, articles, etc. in exchange for the free software. now, eve is different since it isn't a boxed product per se, but it could certainly be arranged for a subscription period (3 months, 6 months, 1 year etc.) or a boxed collection (eve collector's edition). the boxed collection in particular offers the additional value in asking/requiring the producer to also review the physical goods, create an unboxing video, etc. some people out there may not even be aware these kinds of products exist.another type of agreement may consist of pre-creating several mid-level characters of various archetypes. a miner, a mission runner, an explorer, etc. and giving these to a player in exchange for an x-part series featuring each of them. this would require a more formal agreement.a third option (which is most likely to be considered distasteful, but should still be considered) is to hire a pr firm to directly pay the targeted personalities to play eve. these gamers would be contracted to receive $x per video/media produced, with previously agreed-upon topics, length, etc. they would have to disclose their sponsorship to their fans, but would otherwise be relatively free to approach the game as they please. this type of contract would be the most formal, but also the most likely to yield results due to the best incentives and the binding nature of the agreement. however, these players would still not be receiving any type of in-game advantage or exclusive benefit.of course, it is hard to advise on the type of route to take without knowing ccp's budgeting details, their previously completed endeavors, general player data/segmentation of high-retention players, etc. they're just examples of high-level templates to work from, based on what i have seen work for other companies."
"interview was excellent! chance/suzy for csmx!"
"if it wasn't for chance and or the wingspan bros i would have left the game and unsubbed a while ago :d good luck boss :)"
"your rvb experience put you on the radar for my ballot since the new bro agenda is the primary criteria for who i will vote for this year. big bonus is that via your alts you have a wide range of experience in other areas of the game that will clearly be on ccp's agenda this year.what do you think of the opportunities dev blog and the possibilities it suggests for new players to get a better start in learning how to play eve?"
"the devblog is a good start. i love the free form concepts that the opportunities system promises, rather than sequential do x, y, z and read a wall of text it becomes much more about allowing them to explore. this works well when you combine the new ui elements and things like the new simple icons, the notification system etc. so you are guiding and teaching them subtly, allowing them to explore without giving them a rubix cube and the traditional 'go f*** yourself...'the fact you can now make things open ended means that they can learn there is more than one way to skin a cat, more than one way to achieve an objective and remove some of the artificial restrictions placed in the existing tutorial. i'm particularly happy that things like joining fleets, pvp and other things that were not previously possible or that were very intuitive from the old tutorial system could also get a new lease of life. eve is by and large a social game and people will get the most out of it if they engage with other players, so anything that means social / npsi groups or corporations are easier to access is a very positive change.hopefully now the new player experience can also show the players that loosing a ship, loosing a pod, etc. is all par for the course and that they can and should embrace the fact that they are immortal hopefully making people less risk adverse and more likely to explore other areas of space, other types of gameplay and means that players can be engaged from day one to day twenty one rather than getting to the end of the tutorial and saying... 'what do i do now'."
"i tried to give a bit of flavor of that in my follow on posts. essentially it boils down to me that the focus needs to be on customization, and player driven/unique solutions to overall balance. for instance, when ccp generally thinks of balance, they consider how they can better move us to the right decisions, based on some pre-determined ship archetypes and given specifications.i see it much differently, this game like no other has embraced the very foundation of economics and material acquisition. that should be used to drive balance from within the player base through real invention and tweaking of products in the manufacturing process. more like being given a bag of ingredients that we discover how to put together better based on a more fundamental approach to attributes, specifications, and parameters. so instead of changing an attribute tag on a ship and making the mass artificially some number, that should be a function of all the crap you put on it plus materials used in construction etc (along with efficiencies in design and whatever).so while the ship o'the day meme never gets old, it does always say the same thing...cookie cutter top down design doesn't work. innovation needs to come from those that actually make use and need it etc, and not by commity, but by individuals experimenting and literally inventing, drafting and building custom ships from the raw materials available throughout the eve universe.to me that is the ultimate waaay on down the line end-game, and not something i would imagine would just be implemented, but rather a philosophy of thought driven towards, so that progress can be made in that direction over time. nothing in eve feels like it is mine, even though i may have mined/harvested the components, or done the reactions etc etc etc, at the end of all that work, i get some thing that is the same as all the other things, with no more or less value, and all i did was jump through the right hoops for the sake of it. that can extend to all sorts of aspects of the game."
"great leader and great personality."
"this is a particularly difficult question. software developer is not quite the same as a manager. not to mention there isn't much that can be done in one day. that being said i will try to follow what i believe to be the spirit of the question, rather then the exact wording.my top three priorities would be 1) begin the construction of an app that exposes tools you do not want to expose to 3rd party developers. (pi, skill training, in game chat from mobile tool, skill point updater)2) begin examining creating a stripped down version of the client that could work via mobile to allow basic in game functions (could be the facilitator of number 1)3) collect a list of the back log as well as previously announced features that have been left on the way side. separate features into \"active development\", \"backburner\", and \"abandoned\" and expose this list to the players (for features that are public of course) while number three is not specifically mobile, i believe that it should be done either way. we have a trail of lost features, and we as a community should know which features that have been mentioned over the years are still on the table. i think this would do wonders for player confidence of future feature discussions."
"run with me you mean!"
"the real problem with pi is that it is damn un-intuitive. why do you think the new eve flight academy has 4 videos on pi alone? the system is just terrible.the sad thing is that the foundations of it are not that bad, only its ui. a few simple fixes, such as the ones i listed below will make it far easier to figure it all out.the problem with a starter mission is that generally pi is measured in days, not minutes or hours. i am still unsure how to make it work within the npe, but making the system as a whole make sense and not be so punishing would go a long way."
"ironically the newbros who join null blocks generally do not need the npe as much as those who do not. null blocks are very good at turning new players into workers and getting them up to speed. those who chose not to join null blocks right away (or are to intimidated) are the once we really need to reinforce with a solid training program and engaging game-play."
"recently, thoric sat down with us over at cap stable for an interview, you can find it here:"
"vote for thoric!"
"+1 for a great leader!"
"i hold thoric in extremely high regard personally, he has been an extremely good alliance leader for us. i also agree with his views on eve and where the game should go, so he will have my vote. there are a lot of lawn members on here showing support, please dont take that as a sign of nepotism but rather a genuine belief that if thoric is involved in something it will likely be better for it."
"thoric for csm 10"
"not sure i agree with this. the stagnation is very much the fault of the coalitions in my opinion. smaller entities are virtually extinct because the coalitions either killed them all or swallowed them up. i don't see how any sov mechanic that ccp introduces could prevent anyone from forming a massive blob if that's what they are determined to do. i agree with you on risk aversion, which is the cause of the coalitions.edit - you make some good points regarding risk-aversion in other posts."
"speedkermit, i think there are a number of ways they can introduce mechanics - not just sov mechanics, but game mechanics, that can create diminishing returns when you go full blob. just a few random examples could include diminishing returns on links for larger fleets, perhaps an increase in signature size for individual members of a fleet as it got larger. perhaps ecm could be tweaked to have a small aoe effect that might discourage simply orbiting an fc and hitting f1 on command. i haven't thought any of those through completely, so i disclaim their being goodideas(tm) by themselves, but accept them as an illustration of game mechanics that could tone down n+1 combatnumbers will always matter, but you can at least make it so that if you can get close, you can count on not being completely outclassed. which would encourage fights. also, the thing about large coalitions.... people play games to win. if the best way to play is accumulating a large coalition, people will take that path. (and don't mistake it for easy mode. the politics of a large coalition are hard, or you wouldn't see so many organizations failscading) blaming people for making a winning move, or telling them they shouldn't do so because you would prefer to win once in a while is pretty much the anathema of a sandbox game. generally speaking, the answer if most people aren't having fun in your game is to create new content and rulesets that allow people of all sizes to have achievable, fun goals. ccp has had some great successes and epic failures in that realm over the years. all i can do is offer my point of view on what worked and didn't over the course of the past decade or so."
"i recognize it's been a quiet two weeks for my campaign, but i'm going to blame it on the fact that i had my interviews posted first thing early on in the campaign, and thus there's really very little new to share that's changed since those interviews posted (and nobody's asked me questions recently).my killboard's been quiet recently because i've been flying logi frequently, including for a fun little small gang brawl with darkness. and a renter ratting carrier dunk. i'll post in a bit about my thoughts on the latest npe devblog."
"so, having looked at the npe blogpost in a bit more detail: open-ended ways to introduce players to game mechanics are great. however, it doesn't yet address the piece of connecting new players to existing communities of players that share compatible interests/self-selected cultures, and that's the part that will have the most impact for new player retention in the long term.in short, what rise is proposing to do will have dramatic gains for retention of players in the first 7 days as they learn mechanics, but doesn't yet address retention of players from days 7-14 and beyond."
"1.0"
"hello capsuleers,i first started playing eve 5 years ago. i am currently member of mortis angelus a member of the kadeshi alliance. i am one of the many fc's in the kadeshi alliance. my main focus in eve is the combat pvp element. even thou i focus my time in mostly combat, i have experience in the industry and pve elements of new eden.these are some of the points i will be focusing on if i am elected as csm:1) how to generate content for new players to gain a large player population in eve.2) focus on pvp and pve ship balancing by exploring the current gaps with t1 sub capital ships usage. set a platform for t1 sub capital pvp and pve. in my eyes this will create more content for everyone due to cost and availability. this will also increase the need and demand for industry corporations within super alliances.3) explore t2 sub capital pvp platform and usage. currently there<U+FFFD>s only a select few t2 cruisers used for pvp. look at balancing one t2 sub capital ship from each race to have better pvp usage.4) look into new industry/mining barge faction cross race platform ships for better defense and mining yields.5) look into better communication structures in eve to support new player base and veteran player<U+FFFD>s communication links for recruitment. being a part of the different elements new eden has to offer, i have discovered several different player populations with many different outlooks on the way eve online is played. in those 5 years i have experience many successes and utter failures that have made me the eve player i am today. i have been in alliances that have crash down to nothing in null sec, i have been in industry corporations where small coalitions existed and the relationships have had a major impact on the course of their future.so you ask yourself why i bring up successes and failures in eve? when i look at a dictionary and look up the definition of a sand box in the virtual world, i see a picture of eve online next to that word. the sand box knows no boundaries and it can eat you alive or bring you the adrenaline rush you want out of your gaming experience. these are things i would like to help improve in, provide the input to create the content you as the player want to see next.csm is a great tool to be the voice for our player population. i want to be one of our players voices and present these ideas to our developers. i want to hear your voices, share our ideas and bring back that communication from the developers group to you.so the big question, why vote for me?this will be my first year running for csm. actually this will be my first time running for any campaign. what i lack in position that requires a vote from the population and being a voice for our society, i can promise my door will always be open. i will give 110% to make sure your voice is heard. i will apply my knowledge and your knowledge to communicate the best interest for our society in new eden.thank you for taking the time to read my campaign thread and when the time comes let me be your voice and vote for cycule."
"gorksi, what about off grid boosting? some other players in here asked you about this but you seemed to avoid the topic. obg is the reason for most of my accounts being inactive and i know many pilots who feel the same way. isn't it finally time for a change in that regard?edit: you stated that you want new players to get out there and solo (agreed) but running a second account to carry around one of these ridiculous link boats to be competitive is kind of really discouraging, don't you think?"
"**** ogbs i have a party to attend and i need to get drunk after work will write something more on this. here is my blog btw"
"painful"
"very immature and downright stupid responses. the bad thing is that you seemingly regard yourself as funny or original when you reply like that. also: cheering for ogb means that you don't know **** about small gang pvp or that you're in for the e-peen. either way you should stay away from csm as far as posible."
"you are right, small gang pvp means, don't use ogbs....."
"saw rhavas' bump for your thread and knew your interview was posted, so i took a listen. i will say that you did much better in the interview than i had anticipated based on the townhall the other day. you are clearly a nice and likable guy, with the occasional giggle in self amusement and a hint of nerves in your tone as you struggle through some of the questions/answers. the latter is normal ofcourse, but the former really does say a lot about you in my opinion.i think you took a leap in this campaign. you don't strike me as the spotlight kinda person, and i'm basing this on my interaction and observation of you. almost none. i can tell you that i wouldn't be surprised by hidden fremen, ayeson, bernie nator, chitsa jason, bronya boga, longinous spear, jack miton, winthorp, sith1s spectre, billy hardcore, james arget, or even rhavas running for csm, since i know how involved they get in this game, and they lead from the front in their interaction with other players. until your announcement, i'd never heard from you.after listening to your interview, i heard the same rhetoric all political prospects use, including myself last year, but i didn't find that you are really trying to bring anymore to the table other than your commitment to support corbexx, which doesn't really mean you need to be a csm to do that. i support corbexx, sugar, and others often, and i don't or have intentions on serving on csm. i have respected rhavas' opinion for a long time now, and always look forward to his write-ups and blog posts, but for the first time in sometime i have to say i'm not in agreement with him.i just don't see that you bring anything to the table that we don't already have. corbexx has plenty of support, and he gets things done. the question becomes:would having two wormhole candidates make it even better?yes, i think it would. but the next question becomes:are you the guy that would best represent as the second wormhole candidate?i'm not convinced you are... but, i will say you are likely the only other option i see currently. i think you are a nice guy, and i think you are a better option than bane cortex or angrod, but i am concerned that you aren't keen on maintaining a blog or capitalizing on written communication avenues. corbexx is already a terrible writer (he admits this freely), and if i were to ask for an amazing #2, a great writer and communicator that supports him is what i'd wish for...that's my two cents, and you are on my ballot (if that means anything) as the only other wormhole candidate worth voting for.+1"
"aww, proc you don't love me any more. ariete is one of my corp-mates, it's true. but it is very rare that he and i fly together - maybe once in the last year - we're in different time zones and have only a handful of connections. so unlike james arget in csm 8, who i knew very well, ariete and i are not as closely acquainted. and you're right, ariete is not a radical departure from corbexx.i think your questions strike to the core of the matter. 1) would we, as wormholers, be better off with two reps? i think we would. and 2) is ariete the best #2? he's got opinions that match mine, with the possible exception of the black hole stuff (i'm not well-versed in life in new black holes and how well they're going so it's hard for me to tell). here's a sneak preview of my coming opinion: unless one of the 15 unannounced but approved candidates is one of the more famed people you note above, while others call themselves wormhole candidates in a shill for votes, ariete is in my opinion the only one in the race other than corbexx who i consider a true wormhole candidate. for me, this makes the math very straightforward.o7author of interstellar privateer shattered planets, wormholes and game commentary"
"my csm votematch information can be found here!"
"angrod losshelin recently sat down with cap stable for an interview, listen here:"
"no he really doesn't, and neither do you. just listened to your podcast, and honestly, you really don't understand that input broadcasting is literally a form of automation. noting the fact that it isn't allowed anymore, and you point that out, i'd like to state a couple things:1. i multi-box without any third party software.2. i work with automation every day at work. (you are welcome to mail me for my credentials, or look at my campaign from last year.)3. input broadcasting is limited-user automation.4. it is cheating in a gaming environment.5. ccp changed the rules to remove it.6. is boxer made adjustments for eve online.7. what is left is fine with me.8. if you took the above approch and breakdown, you would likely have not lost support.9. you misrepresent corbexx's stance on new players and npe in your interview.10. i don't think you represent my interests or the best interests of others in this game, outside your own interests.11. as it stands, i sincerely hope you aren't elected.12. the end."
"you beat me to the punch!check out my podcast! my blog!"
"so lets do this since we obviously disagree, it is not cheating if the game allows it and most games do, this one no longer does. so there fore input duplication is cheating currently.i have stated plenty of times that i am ok with the way things are now regarding input duplication, but alot of people are not. i am not happy about it but i understand that it will likely not change in the future. i chose to represent multi-boxing as a whole and there are a lot of questions as to why it was removed in the first place. if you notice i did not argue in my interview or mention that input broadcasting should be re-allowed. they made it cheating in this game and i understand that.i simply stated that corbexx and the csm/ccp agree that wh space is not npe friendly and that corbexx has not focused on npe regarding wh's, which he hasn't he's focused alot on other issues, which is also very ok. if corbexx wishes to correct me that is totally fine and i will stand corrected. the end only serves to close a book, oddly enough it does nothing to an argument or debate. if you don't want to vote for me don't.i am running to see if the multi-boxing community would like better representation, i am also running to put wh's on the npe map. if the community wants to see that happen, vote for me, it not don't.check out my podcast! my blog!"
"my executor duties don't take up a whole lot of time: it's a small alliance, and my corp runs quite smoothly now that it is so well-established. so there's shouldn't be any conflict between my eve play time, csm duties, and real life."
"good point about yee. his work is excellent. for simplicity i'll stick with bartle.achievers are the ones that i think have the least support in the game. the alliance tournament is the main thing i can think of that caters to them... perhaps also faction warfare. i'm an explorer, so it's hard for me to say how this situation could be improved beyond adding some more competitive elements to the game. the fundamental problem with \"achieving\" in mmos is that their content tends to be open to all players provided they're willing to put in the time. but i would be open to suggestions from the community on this since it's a place i don't have my own ideas about what should happen. one thing i am good at in game design is evaluating the impact of game design changes on the rest of the system: i think i would make good choices from multiple suggestions.i think ccp already does a great job of facilitating the enjoyment of explorers in the game, so i don't think a lot needs to be addressed there. same for the killers.as for the socilaizers, i think there are good avenues already, but the idea of walking in stations, owning facilities there, etc would be a great boon to them. imagine being able to be the proprietor of a bar, which is a place where pilots can socialize, buy stuff from you, and get a certain type of mission... etc. however, i would not advocate this unless ccp could prove that they could get it working without doing it at the expense of development of the core game. the incarna release was pretty weak, and we all remember the shakeup that caused in the community and at ccp."
"i have known norjia for years.she has vast knowledge about eve, is an excellent diplomat and a superb herder of cats.if you want someone who can examine complex systems, talk to people with competing agendas and come up with innovative solutions to gnarly problems, then norjia is the person you want."
"personally, i have no inkling how gorga maintains his sanity running n3 and s2n. i'm hoping the csm will finally break him."
"well, i had to pay 15$ to resub to reply to this campaign... it is i dmitry friggin wizard. bane, you held thor. for tornen please dont get that twisted. and it was like a week and you left right after he took it.... as much as i support your ability to run for csm for this terrible game im going to tell you that you shouldnt. (not because of what everyone else on this thread is saying you know that wormholers are some of the biggest trolls in the game). running for csm requires you to have knowledge of not only the space but of the people in the space for all the time i spent in diplo channels and talking to the various leaders and self proclaimed kings of wormhole space i still didnt know what was best for wormhole space and her citizens therefore i didnt run. take another year at least and build up your reputation. get your self known as someone who cares about the people and the place and then try. until then try not to get evicted over this...on another note. proc you beautiful sob. how you been? i see that your coat is not red and for that sir i am dissapoint."
"you have my vote!"
"while a full rundown on my platform is still pending the approval of my campaign manager, doink9731, i will do my best to answer any questions you may have in this thread."
"um signups closed months ago?!"
"ohwell **** it then"
"wait.... signups close?f***ck my life!!!"
"closed."
"holy crap dude thanks!"
"i would agree with this - if a small amount of resources were put against this on the eve side, and they were in communication with the dust/legion team and allowed to use the same engine, then when you combine legion's engine with the upcoming on-demand content download capabilities, i really think ccp could deliver us that vision they originally talked about.just like captain's quarters were supposed to be a slow temporary start, they can iterate on it for each release. i'm sure if they gave us vending machines and other items for aur, then the aur sales could start funding further development in the avatar experience.ultimately, i'd love to see a unified eve universe, where legion, valkyrie, and eve all existed on the same plane and in the same overall client."
"perhaps eve gives new players the wrong impression of the game and directs them into pve and lets them think that high sec is the pve area?"
"old vet here intrested in industry to some degree. just passing by in my search for the key to open damn unidentified wormholes what bothers me most is eve industry atm is much more \"ingame skill-based managment\" with too predictable results then actual \"production\" or \"research\" with strong impact of personal human skills. of course you can get better prices or cheaper components but... imagine if someone would 95-99% win in pvp just because of one's skills are leveled to 5 and opponent skills are 4s - thats just wrong.the other good example is new explorations mechanics (and i admit i really like it) - ingame skills rise ones chances to open hacking/arch container but only to some degree and it strongly depends on personal skill.also if it would be more about personal skills probably we would see less passive alts (just for an extra slots lol) doing good at industry. same goes to mining and such. and about claiming asteroids. probably we could see more complex approach with conjusction of exploration and mining/gathering mechanics. probably removing all but basic newb sources points. all other stuff needs to be found first (be it asteroids or comets itc) probably involving much more detail scanning (thinking of elite dangerous style). founders get scan results and rites to extract this site. or they can put this claim deed on global information market where intrested parties could check how complete scans are, actual location of the site and what possible revenue they would get if they would harvest it. people who dont own \"rights\" get \"suspected\".tl;dr finders keepers but with legitimate way to sell what they find. just an idea...here is my vote - industry is a heart of the game after all and it deserves love no less then pvp."
"you have my vote; any possibility you could expand on this in a bit more detail? i'd be interested in your thoughts. thanks."
"i wasn't gonna vote but the overwhelming response has convinced me to vote for this candidate.ty all for helping me make the decision."
"lord vaari's campaign ad.fixed a spelling mistake, the url has changed."
"thank you for your support."
"reminder that tora is the man. dont judge his mercenary activities, check out his ideas and his freedom of speech.he is already famous, csm is not an ego trip, he just loves eve and wants to improve it.godspeed, bushido warrioreternal bushido skymarshal aram kachaturian, french prince and wielder of the flame of ballin'."
"hi, i see nothing wrong in those logs. you are trying to induce a rage reply with your \"...\", smileys and arrogance. quit being a troublemaker or hater/poser, improve yourself and dont overreact for anything."
"hello tora, whats your opinion on walking in stations and opening that door in the captain quarters?"
"if ccp adds ak47's and the option to shoot the **beep** out of someone, then kick the corpse out of station and shoot it again. like !"
"here's your ad."
"all the official candidates for csm x are now known.voting will start feb 25th and ends on march 10th.for those interested in endorsing me publicly, i have an offer i think you will like:put the sentence that is between quotes below both in your character bio in-game and as your eve online forums' signature until march 10, and send me an e-mail in-game about your endorsement (i will not respond to your email, but your endorsement will be noted).\"i will include borat guereen in my top three votes for csm x to bring in some independant voice to represent us, and help support the solo play style. vote borat guereen for csm x.\"at a random time between now and march 5th*, i will take a screenshot of your signature on the forums (make sure to post there to let your endorsement be known) as well as a screen shot of your in-game bio. for those that have my endorsement sentence on both screenshots, if i am elected, i will set up a 10mn one on one discussion in english via my team speak server to hear your most important opinions about eve, and discuss them with you to understand your perspective (i plan to set up all these one-on-one discussions within the first three months of my tenure). if you have more than one character endorsing me publicly, our one-on-one will be 10mn per 3 characters with this endorsement.one of your character of your choice will also be given an \"endorser\" access to my csm x forums that i will set up to discuss about eve with my electorate, for the duration of my tenure.*edit on 2/25: now that voting has started the time frame for meaningful endorsements has been reduced to 3/5. for all those that have send their email before 2/25, the end date remains 3/10frla liste compl<U+FFFD>te des candidats officiels pour le csm x est maintenant publique.le vote d<U+FFFD>marre le 25 f<U+FFFD>vrier et se termine le 10 mars.si vous souhaitez me soutenir publiquement, j'ai une proposition qui je pense vous plaira:ajouter la phrase qui est ci-dessous entre guillemets <U+FFFD> la fois dans votre biographie de personnage en jeu et dans votre signature sur les forums eve online, et envoyez moi un email en jeu pour m'indiquer votre soutien (je ne r<U+FFFD>pondrais pas <U+FFFD> cet email, mais votre soutien sera not<U+FFFD>).\"je vais inclure borat guereen dans mes trois premiers votes pour le csm x pour donner une voix aux joueurs ind<U+FFFD>pendants, et aider <U+FFFD> soutenir le style de jeu solo. votez borat guereen pour csm x!\"a n'importe quel moment jusqu'au 5 mars*, j'irais faire un screen shot de votre signature de forums (assurez vous de faire au moins un post pour faire connaitre votre soutien) et de la bio de votre personnage.pour ceux qui ont ma phrase de soutien <U+FFFD> la fois sur les forums et dans leur bio, si je suis <U+FFFD>lu, je mettrais en place une discussion priv<U+FFFD>e avec vous de 10mn sur mon serveur team speak pour entendre vos opinions les plus importantes sur eve, et en discuter pour comprendre votre perspective (je pr<U+FFFD>vois de faire ces discussions dans les trois premiers mois de mon mandat). si vous avez plus d'un personnage me soutenant publiquement, notre entretien dureras 10mn par 3 personnages me soutenant.l'un de vos personnages de votre choix obtiendras aussi un acc<U+FFFD>s \"soutien\" <U+FFFD> mon forum csm x que je mettrais en place pour discuter de eve avec mon <U+FFFD>lectorat, pour la dur<U+FFFD>e de mon mandat.* mise a jour le 25/2: mainetant que les votes ont demarres, la periode pour un soutine utile est reduite au 5 mars au lieu de 10. elle reste fixee au 10 mars pour tout ceux qui m'ont envoye un mail avant le 25/2 ."
"this post focuses on digging more into one of my program points, and summarize my thoughts or what i said about it in various medias.csm representatives can only be elected once. this is important to make sure the csm seats truly represent all players each year and does not become a stagnant pool of power playerseve online is not like any other mmo out there. players build resources and assets that they can lose in-game, and have a wide variety of options to set their own goals. there is no final boss, no end point in a players' influenced story line. for a lot of players that chose to stick with this game, eve is more like a hobby than just another game.eve has celebrated its 10 years already. for all those involved, the passion, and the stakes, are high and the nature of this game is about long term commitment.the more recent information about the csm interaction with ccp clearly shows that csm members will have the ability to voice their thoughts directly in confluence, the system that ccp uses to manage their projects. ccp also clearly stated that they are the sole and final decider about what they do with the game, and they reserve the right to not make everything public to the csm (as i think insider knowledge on some stuff can favor certain groups over others, and is difficult to verify regardless of nda signed).still, a direct access to the makers and deciders of the fate of new eden is a significant power, as the teams in ccp can read everything logged and kept in confluence.ccp's goal is different from the players' representative goals: ccp is there to make money while providing long term fun and a unique sci-fi experience. the csm members represent the voices of the players that voted for them. csm members are not game designers, they are part of a focus group, or a think tank, and represent the community that elected them, to bring up points that may be ignored, or acted upon at ccp's discretion.my main point is that being elected only once will keep in check a non-ccp employee individual's influence over the game we all share, and allow other voices and faces to rise up. as younger players become vets, there is no shortage of talents in the player base to represent a community that evolves each year. i also support an increase of the term for csm to two years, and possibly an increase to the number of representatives to keep up with the growth of the active community, keeping one election every year for half of the memberslarge players' groups, with their voting recommendations, will always have representatives on the csm, but it is up to them each year to find new people to represent them. i also support activity feedback for csm members, with a public activity report for every csm member every 6 months, and consequences for two poor activity reports in a row, like loosing your seat to a candidate next in line from the last election. this process must not become a possibility for other csm members to black-ball someone they do not like, and be fact checked with activity data, and clear expectations.version fran<U+FFFD>aise"
"sighmike, just when i was about to drop you into the \"endorsed\" section of my spreadsheet i find this. my friend, you were even in the room for my favorite dev quote ever:so lay it on me - what's your ideal fix for something that, imo, is a gargantuan non-problem that is really a symptom of whiny laziness?author of interstellar privateer shattered planets, wormholes and game commentary"
"afk ratting is one of those things that keeps coming up. let me tell you why i have an issue with it then you can decide whether it alters how you will vote. i want people to play eve. i want then to be present in the moment. i have issue with afktars, with afk mining, with people assigning drones and coming back hours later to see how they did. i dislike bots that allow someone to set it and return to bacon. unless you are docked or in a pos, you are at risk. space is dangerous.but then there is cloaking. see, i have no issue with the psychological impact of it but the presumed safety. i would howl with maniacal laughter if the circadian sleepers started finding, scanning, and decloaking inattentive cloaked ships. i don'the mind cloaks . . . i mind their excessive safety and security. mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"local channel list provides even more safety and security and doesnt even require you to make any fitting sacrifices."
"yes, but it is not an asymmetric safety and it does demand player engagement to be useful.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"i can get behind this. agreed, providing certain timing. i don't think looking hard at a ship that has been afk cloaked for 10h without moving is a big deal - go for it. but 30 minutes is very typical when you are actively watching a target. i've sat watching, actively, for up to 2-3h at a time as a scout. sitting cloaked is an especially valid thing to do in wormhole space.the issue is not the cloak. so if the above is your stance, please don't present it as a cloaking issue - present it as an afk issue.author of interstellar privateer shattered planets, wormholes and game commentary"
"mike, the more i read the higher on my list you go. from what i read, the best thing i can see about you is that you have a solid, grounded platform. your intents are clear and well communicated and despite being called wishy washy and a compromiser, i see you as a clear, decisive moderate.a disclaimer before i go further: i'm a carebear and proud of it. i enjoy missioning and mining with the rare day of incursions in peace and quiet (with the exception of npc explosions). i have tried null, but wasn't really happy there so i moved back to highsec.some thoughts on points raised:in regard to the conversation with feyd rautha harkonnen, i wonder if a possible solution would be to make empire space's sec status dynamic. more traffic (hostile or otherwise) would result in a higher concord presence. if you offset this with the opposite being true, or there being a finite concord presence across a region with traffic determining the distribution. in a dynamic secstaus model, i could even see it extending to trusec and the value of null systems for ratting and mining.granted, this the features and ideas section is probably a better place for specific ideas, but in a general context what are your thoughts on reworking some of the static systems, like secstatus, to dynamic ones that are based not on static values set by ccp but on formulas based on player interaction with bounds set by ccp? precedent for systems like this have already been set with the cost index.from where i sit, one of the biggest negative differences between eve and almost any other mmo out there is the immersion factor. there is by far more meta-gaming that goes on in eve than in any game i've ever encountered. i believe this is a large factor in new player retention. what are your thoughts on ways to improve the immersion factor of eve?despite being a carebear, i like the sandbox. i like that there's no right way to play eve. i love its complexity. but i also think there's a real risk of scaring off new players (and the money that comes with them) by having that very complexity create an environment that is so hostile so early. how have advocated in the past to minimize new player loss, and will you continue to do so?"
"read this for entertainment and lolz, yet you made arguments in line with my thinking. you have my vote! you should campaign on reddit sometime, do an ama."
"i really like it when people read this thread for the lulz but like it. i intend to set up a reddit account and do just that."
"in my opinion, the changes of sovereignty mechanical will be key to this election. eve needs a re-balancing and a renewed attractions.i want to support the corebloodbrothers vision on this particular topic, a universal vision that can be shared by all players of eve, not just the people of providence ...we are talking about our favorite game.after this election, i could appreciate the man, respectful, teacher, volunteer, and i'm a little sad to see that sometimes the debate revolves around its spelling or its way of fcing. i know how difficult it is for him to sell himself.in the end we all know that it's ccp has the last word on the direction of the game, that's why it is important to elect people who will carry our voice, and for my part, i think this guy is corebloodbrothers.corebloodbrothers will have my vote."
"thank you. please \"focus fire\" of your votes on core. i am too new and contentious a candidate. do not let my being in provi drag core down, please."
"1.0"
"i spend much of any given day with one or two characters waiting for jump fatigue timers to get down to the level where i won't lock myself out of the game until tomorrow by jumping again. it is frustrating, and i understand that it must be even worse for those who don't have the luxury of several capable alts to swap between.i think that the next key step will be to see what ccp propose for their sovereignty solution. if it leads to a substantial increase in nullsec density; if it leads to fractured politics and to more independent powers; and if it rewards those who get into space and fight for their sov (or for the sov of others that they want to take) then i believe that it will just be a matter of tweaking the jump fatigue system, perhaps in some of the ways you suggest.i rather like the suggestion of separate queues: any mechanic that stops people having fun without a very good reason is a poor one, and the idea that i cannot use a blops bridge to hit a ratter because i have a strat op later is, as you suggest, essentially a ****-blocking mechanic."
"1.0"
"actions speak louder than words, chance.you claim to care about the status of pve and the new player experience.you say that, i think this statement is quite funny and contradictory, considering, that you and your corp members are harassing and blackmailing streamers (and even make them quit entirely), whose sole purpose was, to show new players some pve/exploration content and how to get a foothold in eve in gerneral.just to make clear, i don't care about ingame blackmailing, scamming, suicide ganking and whatnot. that's all part of the game.but, just as a comparison, how could i take someone seriously, who's claiming to stand for pve and the npe, but, at the same time, is wardeccing eve-uni and killing newbros?that's, why i think, the purpose of this whole candidacy, is not primarily to help the game, but to boost your own ego.as you might have already guessed, no, i will not vote for you.regards,damjan(now you all can spam me, with your \"htfu\" posts. i don't care.)proposal: >>> new inventory / item hangar <<<"
"here is your ad."
"nice ideas - will endorse"
"profile complete -"
"please put the cosmos agents / mission on ccpgames radar for updating, you got my vote for your lore platform"
"+1 thoric for csm x.i agree with a lot of his ideas, and think that it would be good to have him on the csm. you have my vote"
"another worthwhile candidate"
"thoric is the future of eve!!!!!"
"i would like to say that i dont know someone else better prepared for this kind of work than migui, its someone who always got your back whenever you need it, knows a lot about the game and has a lot of interaction with the people.+123393204839 anyone who knows him would say the same"
"as a true friend and helpful mentor i must gladly promote my true friend cycule for this position. he has been playing with me for a while now and helped me improve in pvp. this man is a great fc pilot that really cares about the pvp side of eve. he really knows the ins and outs of what almost everone is using in eve and why. i have also seen this man be a true help to his friends in need as well as step up to the plate when requested. i have never seen this man turn down a challenge without first thinking though all the scenarios possible for the best outcome. so if i was to chose the right person to push for this campaign it would be cycule because i know he's not doing it for the title but truly to help everyone who plays eve get what we want."
"very happy to see that you have decided to put your hat in the game!no one better to represent the individual players in my opinion. cycule has been an integral feature in our corporation. he is always offering to help in support of the members endeavors whatever that might be. he is there for the little guy. it sounds like he has some sound ideas for improvements. i am interested to hear more about faction mining barges. cycule definetly has my vote!"
"recently, xander phoena and i sat down to discuss his csm x campaign. listen here:"
"massive thanks to the cap stable guys for this interview and all the work they have done this election season.i wrote up a little piece following up some of the accusations that have been aimed at me this election season now that ccp have definitively stated there were zero csm breaches this term:"
"recently, i sat down with citricioni to discuss his run for csm, you can listen here:"
"it's a terrible tedious mechanic which reduces both the total number of fights happening and the quality of these fights. nvm, if you don't understand that this is not the place to discuss that issue."
"oh noooooo, my english :'devery small scale group use offgrid links, if you dont use them, you make it wrong...."
"so far, i have to say that your platform seems a little small and flimsy to me. alright, you would like to see more power and opportunity given to smaller and alliance/coalition independent social groups like your npsi and that's fine and dandy. but i have yet to see some more concrete ideas on what is actually wrong with things how they actually are and what should be done to fix it. especially since at least to my knowledge, ccp has already taken notice of the issue and is thinking of ways to improve upon the social aspect of the game. in your opinion, what are the biggest issues an independent npsi community like yours has to face? what would you like to see in the game, that improves the situation for such communities? in nullsec, with only a few exceptions there are vast regions of space with nothing to shoot but low bounty rats, only sprinkled with a few systems where you will inevitably face ~the blob~ and get shitstomped by endless hordes of ishtars, t3 strategic clinkers or worse. i suppose we can agree that this has to do with the nature of nullsec and the state of sov that favors the ~apex force~ and ~n+1 tactics~ to throw a few buzzwords around. now, ccp is allegedly working on this as well, but what is your stance and how do you think this could be remedied, if you think this needs to be remedied at all? in lowsec, while at least in my opinion the situation is not as bad, it can still be hard for a commander of a few tens of random scrubs to get a decent fight for fun. more often than not one finds himself running into or running from (again) nigh unkillable t3 cruisers or (again) boring as **** ishtars. do you see room for improvement here, or should people just htfu and fly legions and proteususussi themselves? when will we see the birth of the stille gewalt procurer doctrine? can i bring a drake?"
"you seem to imply staying in a system with a cloak active is some kind of problem. why?"
"i know it's a late introduction, abut since i managed to actually get myself on the ballot, and i've received emails stating introduce yourself... i figured it was time.so who am i?i'm that guy that sat in your class for ten years, and you still have no idea who he is. i don't typically thrust myself into the limelight, and though i've had an effect in several alliances, i remained relatively unknown until recently. basicaly, i'm that very experienced null sec guy, who started his life in high sec, learned the joys of pvp and tested it in all sorts of places. i spent some time years ago running a mercenary corp in high sec, pirated, and spent lots of time out in null.so why did you run for csm?it started off in my podcast with manny, joking around about being able to wear pink thongs in station. although this is obviously not the highlight selling point for me, it got me thinking about actually running seriously. i've never paid much attention to the csm, as i always considered them a popularity contest. however, in the last couple of year some of the joys and wonder that was eve had started to fade for me. that excitement i had 8 years ago fighting with scalar federation for terribad space in pure blind was missed. there's two ways i could have gone with that. find a new game, or inspire myself in eve. i decided to build the alliance / corporation and go that route.what does this have to do with running for csm?i want to represent the \"little guy\". null sec is stagnant. and because of it everything else in eve is mostly affected by this. there are really only a couple of coalitions out there in this player run game, and because of it, nothing happens. this is one of my primary concerns and i'd love the chance to work with ccp on solutions for it. i've had some pretty radical ideas, that would entirely revamp gameplay, so i don't think they will be put in place, but could at least open up new avenues of thinking.the tiny alliance i created and am currently building, is not part of a massive block, and has every intention of messing with massive blocks to see what can be accomplished. eve needs more smaller groups fighting, thriving, and creating content.. this has a cause and effect across all of eve. high sec gankers are often bored alts. prices are inflated, low sec is often the big guys rolling over the little guys for moons still... all stuff that needs to change.if you want to get to know more about me, my style, and general thoughts on eve... check out my blog. it has months worth of thoughts, opinions, ideas, and concepts of the life of a non coalition player.kasken kronicleshit me up here or in game with questions, comments, concerns, and anything else you can think of...eve match csm ballot questionnaire"
"hi kasken - glad to see someone from the latest group put up a thread.i spent some time browsing your blog. looks like you started a corp, flew with n3 for a while, left there, flew with bl for a while, and then struck out for npc null (stain) with your corp and founded a new alliance. so let's get a bit more detailed. do you intend to remain in npc null for the long haul? or is it a staging area for an eventual run to sov? if the first, then what is the shortlist of things you think could be done to make npc null more viable on its own as a whole separate area of space different from sov null? how do you convince people to stay and play? if the second, what are the top priorities you have that you'd like to see ccp consider as part of the sov revamp? for bonus points you can answer both. :) what drove you to leave n3? what drove you to leave bl? what are the most important lessons you've learned in running your own corp and alliance? author of interstellar privateer shattered planets, wormholes and game commentary"
"1. i can safely say no. we have moved out of stain, and are currently living in detorid. we are building / growing for a little bit before we strike for our own sov. npc null to me is like low sec without gate guns, so it was never really the long haul plan. stain, as a non sw member, is terrible.i think having pirate factions that one can run missions for out there, makes it very independent from sov as it is. perhaps adding some npc null specific anomalies with appropriate rewards not found elsewhere could also add to its appeal. finally, the quality of space in npc null should be bumped up a bit.sov revamp, there are so many ways of doing it. isk sinks, by themselves... really won't cut it. n3 / cfc will just raise rental rates and people will pay. i would personally love to see a couple of different methods in action.a, moons get mined out and \"respawn\" elsewhere in eve. similar to when a site is run it appears in another anomaly, but on a much grander scale. b. systems that are unused, have their true sec gradually decrease, ie an unused system for x time would reach truesec -1.0. heavily used systems would raise up to a base 0.0 truesec. this could force migration and movement instead of huge swaths of underpopulated space.2. the corp i was in chose to leave nulli and went to fw for a while. i was in the process of leaving the us army at the time, so played in fw a bit, and then moved back across the country and was inactive. during that time a large chunk of the corp reformed their old group, and \"into the ether\" fell apart.3. i left black legion, because they were toxic and immature. i have a blog post about it and rather than retype it all, i will provide the link to the reasoning for my departure form bl.linky4. the most important lesson is quite easy... delegation. a ceo who does everything themselves, burns out. eve is challenging, and running a successful corp requires a large set of skills and dedication. you have to trust and delegate tasks to people to spread out the workload.the other equally important thing is communication. without clear communication, people start to feel left out, and lose site of what is going on. poor communication is often the first cracks in a corps foundation."
"given that corporations in eve are really just collections of people, do you think that trading stocks would have any real value?i.e. what would the driver of value be in trading stocks?"
"i find the question odd, as real corporations in real life are really just collections of people as well. but i'll answer it as best i can. :)for example, my corp has run what we call projects where a bunch of people give us money in exchange for stocks. then the project uses the money to do something (say buy poss, set them up in a wormhole then run reactions), and it pays dividends to the shareholders through the corp interface.currently, this only works with people we trust since a random person in the galaxy doesn't have any means of trading the stock with us. with a stockmarket, anyone can trade the shares with anyone. personally, i'd like our project shares to be available to trade with anyone.this opens up new means of gathering wealth. like you could issue 100,000 shares in your corp, but keep 25,000 of them, and then sell them later once the value of the shares has gone up.clearly this is open to nasty things like insider trading and various scams. but as i said before, that's a much more interesting set of problems than just wondering if the share sale will be honored or not with the current system."
"you say you are currently a game designer/game programmer. are you aware of the nda provisions that prohibit current employees of competitors to ccp from being on the csm?\"ccp employees, isd volunteers, ccp interns, ccp affiliates, ccp strategic partners or employees of other gaming companies/games and family members of ccp are all ineligible to run for the csm.\""
"i didn't think of my employer as a competitor, as the project i've been on is a mobile golf game. thanks for the heads up, and i'm guessing i will be ineligible. if this is the case, i am sorry for having wasted peoples' time.:("
"best to come clean with ccp and explicitly clarify - they might only be concerned with mmos."
"your campaign ad"
"gorga has my full unconditionnal support. he is the shadow man who works a lot but will never brag about it.godspeed gorga. -2/10 video, that's extremely unpleasant, you redefined the meaning of atrocity."
"here you go."
"thank you very much."
"hey dmitry, i've missed you snook'ums. sorry about the red coat missing, but to be fair, this new one is legit. i get to swing the \"ebil space emperor\" look. i'm glad you came in to clear this up regarding bane's \"experience\" while flying with you guys. as a self proclaimed and retired \"king\", and i don't care if hidden gets flustered (lol <3 u too), it's my game, my rules, point is that i've never interacted with bane, and i've interacted with many many of the active wormholers and groups over the years. the players i've worked and played with were the people that i feel have been \"involved\" in wormholes.this is from his candidate snapshot... \"very involved since their creation.\" i started wormholes fall of 2009. annnnnnd i don't know who bane is and never crossed paths with him. ever. this seems like a shill attempt to garner votes in an area that some think will yield votes by simply saying \"wormholes\". nope. we may be one of the hardest critics of csm candidates.@banebefore you or someone cries out that i don't understand... check this out. i understand full well what you and every other candidate is going through. you clearly don't have the time, knowledge, or experience to be running this year.i suggest you just forfeit the campaign and bow out. save yourself the headache, bud. like i suggested to others before you, you should get involved over the next year as an individual contributor and then run for csm next year. prove to players that you are active and involved in the community. you will go much farther and be far better received. wormholers are ironically a tight community, and we have our drama, but we still know and support our own in our own way. get involved with the community before you try to be our representative."
"here it is."
"title says it all."
"not the right forum section, but"
"never thought of having the dust devs work on it like that.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"-1 strongly not supported.the lack of risk in null sec has been a driving force in the stagnation of sov null. the ability to almost insta-travel from one side of new eden to the other has spawned mega coalitions and mostly empty systems. the jd nerf was"
"sugar kyle and i, will be holding a sounding board for people to come and chat about structure with ccp nullarbor.stuff that will be discussed are.alternate ideas for capture/ destroying structures.being safe and or aggressing ships around structures outposts/pos/desployables.the meeting will take place on thursday the 26th feb at 19.00 eve time. it will be on a ts server, details being sent out the day before to people wanting to come along.if you'd like to come along please post below."
"yeah i'd like to come along (unless its at a horrible time)"
"i really hope intel gathering from both a structure owner/occupant and visitors to a systems perspective will also be considered greatly when designing these.a station just won't be acceptable for wh space."
"sure i'll be there :)"
"stations will be fine in wormholes when they can be destroyed there and nullsec"
"no they really won't be.i think the failure of takeup from wh entities of the thera experiment should be proof enough to ccp that stations in wh space with all their limitations with intel gathering and docking games do not belong."
"i will do my best to make it."
"highsec wardecs are broken in my opinion. too much power lies in the hands of the aggressor and any newer industrial corp is going to struggle to do anything in the event of a war. i say this as someone who started out their eve career in a highsec, pure pve corp that had absolutely no pvp players inside of it.when the first wardec came, we were still incredibly unprepared. it came from a merc corp who would basically come to our system, cloak up in a deep safe, and sit around all day afk waiting for both our members to reach low levels of activity, and the pirate corporation we were working with to log off. they would then hit us over and over again until everyone was in stations, spinning ships, since a lot of them couldn't even begin to fit a starter combat frigate. we had members that were often less than a couple of months old. everyone else were carebears for life.even as we got better with dealing with wartime, it was a bit too little too late. more and more corporations were dogpiling onto the wardec. at one point there wasn't an hour in the day which you could be logged on and not have wartargets cloaked throughout the system. this is the point we were actually able to get some of our pirate friends to start helping us with the wardecs. they were limited though, as they weren't massive lumbering corporations, so they could only help us with a few of our most difficult wardecs. even then, we weren't able to make a dent, even though there was an effort from many people to try and get some kills against these dec corps. major problems were things such as lots of neutral logi in system to break any wt's out of any jams, as well as the majority of fights either being quick, fast engagements against a lone ship that couldn't be saved, or they were fought on station where the wt's knew enough about the aggro system and knew how to use neutral logi alts well enough that they were guaranteed not to lose anything. i believe at one point we had a proteus, falcon, drake and a brutix all piling onto a wt we had baited into engaging on station, only for him to land two neutral logis on top of station and rep the ship long enough so that it could dock.we were only able to resolve the wardecs after i was able to befriend even more pvp corps in the area. there were about 4-5 pvp corps, one of which was comprised of about 100 people and the other which came from nullsec, that we were able to uproot all of these wardecs and get them off our back. we had been in a constant war for nearly three months and even with the help of somewhat competent pvpers, the wars ended with us just barely able to deal out about a billion isk in kills to the few billion we had suffered. it ultimately led to the corporation falling apart.i've kind of rambled a bit, but i wanted there to be a personal touch to help understand where i'm coming from when i put down my next points:npc corporations are not a real option. whoever is pushing this meme has no idea what a corporation can mean to players, and are generally people who think that corporations should fit some ideal they've made up in their head. corporations act as a rallying point for players to come together and work towards a single, more clearly focused goal. it is not a place just for pvpers to stack their \"leet\" kb's under a single banner. they are for everyone, not just the people that have been artificially decided that \"these are the kind of people who can have corporations without being rekt.\"if a merc corp can bribe concord to start a war, why can an industrial corporation not bribe concord to invalidate it? this at least gives an indy corp to use its natural abilities to counteract war decs. if you pay 50mil isk to start a war, why can't an indy corp pay 100mil to invalidate it? if you really think the war dec is worth it, you can double down and pay 200mil to keep it going. let it keep going, it would create at least some risk for a wardec corporation. because as of right now, unless they're just bad at life, most wardec corps worth a dime aren't going to start a fight with someoone they don't think they can absolutely pulverize with absolutely no risk. the corps that are most vulnerable are the corps which are new and don't have the means to fight for themselves. to conclude, the corp is still dead and save for a few people i don't even see any old corp members log on anymore. at our peak, before the wardec, there were about 60 of us. we were starting to participate in npsi fleets, starting to buddy up with local industrial and pvp corps, and were generally just being a group of noobs making something out of what we had. over the course of three months and dozens of war decs, this was very slowly eroded away until there wasn't anything left. to this day i still hop from corp to corp looking for a corp that is reminiscent of the corp that i had been apart of before non-stop wars tore it apart. tl;dr highsec wardec bs isn't beneficial for anyone except the aggressors and suppresses the growth of new corps that don't want to lump in with major blocs that are already in power."
"the reverse is true. the defender has both the option to dec dodge and make the wardec disappear without any consequence or work on their part, as well as bring in functionally unlimited allies for free.they have far, far more options in that regard than the aggressor does. then \"everyone\" needs to put some effort into defending themselves. or do you actually think you should be able to reap the rewards (meager as they are) without doing the same work as everybody else? because that would make the mechanic utterly and totally pointless. thus revealing your true objective, the same as any carebear.you want perfect safety without having to work for it. the answer is \"too bad\"."
"they don't have the option to dodge a wardec, you can only drop corporation. this works if you have a well established corporation, not a new corporation full of people who still don't understand basic eve mechanics. doing what? such as recruiting 4 pvp alliances to join in the wardec like i said i did? there's only so much you can do against people who will sit afk cloaky in your systems all day. some members even tried moving across the galaxy. they were followed over 30 jumps to be killed by war deccers as soon as they had a chance to use a locator agent to find them. what rewards? i don't pve, that's how i started out. but you're free to pull that card if you'd like. i have been in many pvp corporations following that corporation which has been wardecc'd who has said the same thing as any industrial corp. \"avoid major traffic systems, don't get caught out alone, etc etc\".no, i want to meet in the middle. you want it to either be black or white. it's not functional when you only look at it in black and white. there are legitimate reasons to use wardecs. \"your corp is new and easy targets\" isn't a legitimate reason for corps to be able to keep 50+ active wardecs open at all times. this could be as simple as limiting the amount of simultaneous wardecs at a time. there is no legitimate reason for anyone to wardec 50 corps at the same time."
"it works regardless, because reforming a corporation is almost free. no, you don't. you want to handwave any and all wardecs away with isk. that's not the middle, that's a drastic shift in your favor, in a situation which already strongly favors the defender. yes, it is. it's a sandbox game, and that means \"because i felt like it\" is a good enough excuse for anything. there it is again, trying to disqualify.yes, there is a legitimate reason. because they feel like doing it. people should never be handcuffed so badly that they have to have a reason good enough for you, to justify shooting at you."
"which is a terrible solution to an obvious problem of war dec's being easily abused. no, that was an offhand suggestion i made. you're just going after it like i'm about to put it into the next releases patch notes or something. the entire point of the thread from what i saw was to possibly brainstorm solutions. until it becomes because there isn't a good reason. the only reason is to grief and troll and to circlejerk to tired old \"htfu\" meme and talk about tears.it doesn't do anything to benefit the sandbox. it actually works against a sandbox, since it turns a valley of options into a peak of one action. which is troll corps wardeccing anything with a pulse who won't fight against them."
"diplomacy - my first corporation was full of newbies (i was one of them) and was war decced. the ceo talked with the \"enemy\" ceo. a deal was made where my corporation would would cobble together some kind of fleet and meet at a certain gate at a certain time. win or lose, they would drop the war afterwards. it was fun for us newbies (because we got to experience a battle), it was fun for them (because they got the fight they wanted). everyone won.consolidate and operate in groups - yeah, my first corp did this too. there is safety in numbers. at first, our incomes were anemic (because we were all sharing), but we learned how to keep safe. by the end of the war, we had all learned how to effectively \"blitz\" multiple missions in groups... bringing our incomes back to where they were before.use ewar. lots of ewar - when the tables turned and i took up the trade of ransoming corporations, my group and i ran into a carebear group that had \"teeth.\" they had consolidated themselves into one station... and as soon as we started camping them, they all came in griffins and scrammed and jammed our ships. we could only dock up to save ourselves. rinse and repeat for a day or so.the end result was my corporation left them alone and let the war expire after a week.bring friends - you do not need \"4 pvp alliances\" to attack your assailants. just one active and bloodthirsty one will do. pay for their war dec (or let them join in as an ally for free) and let nature take its course.there is no shortage of pvp corporations looking for free, valid war targets. all you need to do is spread the word.you have options. the trick is that you have to stop thinking like a victim and start thinking like a moose. have you ever encountered a moose? those suckers are mean. putting up a pos?putting up a poco?collecting taxes for collective activities?having a common wallet for funding collective activities?being able to rent a common hanger for holding collective assets?a banner effectively declaring \"who you are\" to the rest of the game?the ability to declare war against another group that is annoying you?the first two there can actually reap some huge rewards if you put them up in the right areas and/or use them in the right ways.but... if you have no use for any of the above... then you probably should not have created a corporation in the first place. what you are actually looking for is a common chat channel.the problem is that compared to where we were a couple of years ago, we are already \"in the middle.\" in a few more years, people who come into the game will see the \"new middle\" we establish today will think that it is \"too extreme\"... then start asking for a \"new middle.\"from a wider perspective... this is nothing more than a constant moving of the goalposts.as for legitimacy... again... this is a sandbox. you can't put artificial conditions on one play style on the basis that you personally don't find it \"legitimate.\"the reason for this is that it opens the door for others to make the same argument against you and your play style......which i have pointed out numerous times in this thread."
"it's actually a textbook exploit, and one that used to be punishable but sadly is no longer.and being able to use a mechanic is not \"abuse\". it's there to be used how anyone sees fit. just because you don't think something is a good reason, does not make it invalid. because they felt like it is always, always, 100% of the time a good enough reason in a sandbox game. it does not matter if you disagree, you don't get to curtail their freedom as players. if you can't deal with that, you are playing the wrong game. this game has player freedom, i suggest you pick one that doesn't."
"we did do diplomacy. read my posts, skim less. diplomacy is how we partnered with 4 different alliances, from lowsec pirates to some nullsec alliances that were interested in having an industrial wing. diplomacy doesn't happen overnight, and consolidation doesn't matter if you're playing by your opponents clock. you can't ewar what won't fight your fleets. we actively ran fleets in conjunction with the pvp corporations, as well as getting many of our members into npsi fleets in order to help get them \"trial by fire\" pvp training. blood thirst doesn't matter if someone isn't going to fight them. they can bare their fangs all they want, but they aren't the ones who get to dictate the pace of the battles. the wardeccers get to dictate, because they're generally more experienced players with alts who are involved in many activities, against noobs who have a single account. we are always in war, they are only when it's convenient for them or when they have an advantage in numbers.what need does a noob corp have for a highsec pos? so we can lose money on manufacturing because any ore you get is \"free\"? yeah, that level 1 mission tax money is a sweet, rewarding nectar.because war mechanics are poor for anyone except the aggressor. it's incredibly to their advantage, because they get to make all of the decisions, especially when they are wardeccing a corp that is very new.because they are used as a way to circumvent concord in a lot of the cases rather than to create any sort of gameplay. it's being used as a loophole around highsec engagement rules rather than as a way for corporations to resolve disputes, further their own goals, etc. it's for people who don't want to leave highsec, but still want to do pvp."
"this i can agree with, dropping a corp to avoid a wardec shouldn't be allowed, but neither should a situation in which it's been made to be a legitimate strategy by troll wardecs. i'm not against wardecs, i'm against how easily they are abused. people will just make blanket wardecs, hitting a bunch of random corps, in hopes that more targets will turn up. this is abusive of a mechanic, which creates the problem you mentioned. this ruins the possibility of wardeccing any corp in a way to disrupt their actions, because they can just leave and join another corporation. which is more than likely why there is a larger amount of war deccers who just do it for easy kills.the player has as much freedom to express their opinions about the direction of the game as they do to play the game. that's player freedom. i do think it's illegitimate, and i think the very fact that i would, as well as many others, only post about it on an alt, says a lot about the current state of affairs in eve. since it's a sandbox, i'm going to continue to use the forums and any other medium i can find in order to bring attention to the blatant abuse of wardec mechanics in a way to circumvent highsec engagement rules, because i'm free to do that. stop curtailing my freedoms, bro."
"oh, it really does. that some people don't want to play the game, they want it changed to suit them first.and that's so incomparably selfish that i almost can't believe it.oh, and it doesn't matter one bit if you don't think the way wardecs are used is legitimate or not. they are."
"that is literally what they are for.concord stifles gameplay, wardecs exist solely to allow people around that loathsome mechanic. you can take your \"resolve disputes\" and your e-honor, and go play a different game. clearly you don't want to play eve."
"see here is the thing: eve is a competitive pvp sandbox. the only reason your industrial activities have any meaning is because we are all fighting each other in many ways and on many levels, often trying to destroy each other's assets. this creates the demand for very industrial output that fuels the entire economy.pure pve/industry corps are not really suppose to exist. of course they can - this is a sandbox after all - but the mechanics have always been such that corporations are suppose to compete with each other. highsec is not intended to shield them from player conflict, but rather just provide some support so a new or small corp can get on their feet. you are suppose to be responsible for your defense as often the tactics of your competitors will not always be to try to out-compete you, but rather attack you directly.going with sports analogy again, a pure pve corp is like putting together a baseball team of players that are all excellent at throwing and catching the ball, but have never picked up a baseball bat in their life. such a team is not going to have much success in an actual baseball game. there is a place for someone who only likes to do pve or industry in this game (just like the best pitchers in the major league may not be able to hit the ball to save their life) but it is as part of a team. the game mechanics have been designed as such so you need to arrange for your defense with others whether through joining an alliance, a more informal arrangement with some pvpers, or through hiring mercenaries. you cannot abdicate your defense and still expect to earn the rewards of a player corp. that is the point. the corporation is the competitive unit of eve. you join one to carve our your place, or to achieve your goal in the sandbox. that means people may choose to resist you or try to stop you and that is exactly why wardecs exist. i do think there should be a social corp for players who don't actually have a goal but just like mining or missioning with friends for fun. they should be like an npc corp (and with all the current restrictions), but would give a common identity to more casual players who are not really trying to compete. as was said above, this is a terrible idea as it favours established and wealthy players. new players would become the preferred target of wardeccers and this is the exact opposite of what we should be trying to encourage. spend that money on hiring mercenaries instead.this is working as intended. your industrial corp was unbalanced and apparently too much of your energy was spent on earning profit and not enough on establishing a defense. take what you have learned and rebuild either under the same name, or start a new corp, this time making sure to prepare yourselves from disruption by your competitors and not making the same mistake of \"fitting\" your corp only for yield. eve is a dark, competitive place. she will test you, but as long as you are still willing to try, you can always claw your way back no matter how hard she smacks you down."
"a corp full of noobs should probably disband, tbh, because it's almost certainly never going to get anywhere."
"actually it's not a bad idea to fly it empty, unless you do it afk. which is why giving that ship a cargo scan immunity was such a bad idea. if flew correctly, it already had it.i've had the same br since it was able to fit a covert cloak. fully t2 fit for cargo and never once been shot at. even when moving really expensive items.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"you do realise that engaging brain before hitting undock is an eula violation, right? also, it's just so unfair to the newbies."
"i have removed some rule breaking posts and those quoting them. as always i let some edge cases stay.please people, keep it on topic and above all civil!the rules:4. personal attacks are prohibited. commonly known as flaming, personal attacks are posts that are designed to personally berate or insult another forum user. posts of this nature are not beneficial to the community spirit that ccp promote and as such they will not be tolerated.12. discussion of forum moderation is prohibited. the discussion of eve online forum moderation actions generally leads to flaming, trolling and baiting of our isd ccl moderators. as such, this type of discussion is strictly prohibited under the forum rules. if you have questions regarding the actions of a moderator, please file a support ticket under the community & forums category. 27. off-topic posting is prohibited. off-topic posting is permitted within reason, as sometimes a single comment may color or lighten the tone of discussion. however, excessive posting of off-topic remarks in an attempt to derail a thread may result in the thread being locked, or a forum warning being issued to the off-topic poster. isd ezwal community communication liaisons (ccls)"
"mmmmm .... i feel all warm and rosey now. thanks."
"heh. that's actually pretty close to what i've been kicking round. it's not a major part of the csm job to propose things, but they humour us by letting us do it anyway."
"well should not we hope for more to get less in right direction ?on the other hand i do understand such big changes cant be done right away - even if considered to be good ideas - its a lot of work, thinking, balancing and \"devil in details\" stuff. yet this probably can help ccp devs with general ideas for future of the ingame mechanics.and gl with csm x."
"got my vote again this year. your pages and support articles are great for my indy alt."
"it's like a public access tv ad for your county dog catcher election. however in my learned opinion i believe that is not the candidate's actual laugh at the end of the video. i believe they dubbed in another person's laugh. l submit this as evidence of #laughgate."
"that second video is not me."
"quit insulting xenuria. eve players need him, they will realize his full potential sooner or later.godspeed"
"cant tell if trolling, or literally drinking xenuria's kool-aid in preparation for the mothership"
"it has indeed been a busy week!the official candidate list is out - i am there."
"so gonna go ahead and ask this because i cant read through 6 pages on a mobile that can barely show 4 lines of text at a time, and i sure as hell wotn rememebr to come back later.what defines a 50:50 win chance in ganks? is it 1 miner versus 1 ganker, is it based on 1 miner versus a 5-man ganking squad?how do you scale mechanics that no matter how many gankers there are the miner has a 50:50 chance of being safe, and how does that eman balanced? or another approach, how do you determine what a \"fair\" number of gankers is to start the 50:50 chance at? should 1 ganker have no chance to kill a miner? should it take 10 for a 50:50 chance? what ship/base are you basing the gankers flying with this (catalyst atron nado, etc)? do gankers now have to travel in groups of 25+ tornadoes just to kill a freighter?in short, how complicated must you make ganking without changing anything needed by the miner/trader before its \"balanced\"?*edit* if the psot if too long that already answers what im asking, just tell me the page its on, make my poor life easier with this terrible terrible excuse for a smartphone"
"still, thank you for stopping by, anyway.ok. some of the things / ideas i have said on this subject in various forum/interview and stuff:- teach the new players about dscan, as part of the npe.- introduce some randomness in concord response times (both longer and shorter than currently...)- an active self-destuct module that would allow a non-afk miner/freighter to take most of his stuff with him... if he chooses.i can understand that with so many candidates you don't feel that you have time to read all the threads and listen to the interviews et cetera... but if you really want to know... you really should read the thread and listen to the interviews..."
"thanks for the responseand i do try and read most fo the threads and interviews, its just there are alot so i have to prioritize, and not to be offensiv here but, i try and restrict that to the candidates with the highest likelihood of re-election (so i can judge my opinion on whether to support them or look for someone else), because franly its difficult for an \"independent\" to compete with a main party (wh/nullsec community backed candidates) or an entrenched member (because lets face it, if someone was re-elected once, their chances of being re-elected again are decently boosted)"
"thank you for taking up the challenge lord vaari!"
"a single voice, a united front! amarr victory!"
"+1 bushy mustaches! and everything else as well!"
"+1 all nachos, big or small, for vaari! amarr victory!"
"great new medallions would make me grow a mustache. thank you for your service, lord vaari."
"you got my vote aswell tora. best of luck to you."
"for those who support me, show/mail/etc your friends one of these links. tell them what i stand for and hopefully they will support me too.don't spam locals, chat, etc. with it, as no one likes spam. to evil for my shirt !pirates have all the fun !eve needs more evil !"
"here is your ad."
"thanks"
"i have removed a rule breaking post.the rules:27. off-topic posting is prohibited. off-topic posting is permitted within reason, as sometimes a single comment may color or lighten the tone of discussion. however, excessive posting of off-topic remarks in an attempt to derail a thread may result in the thread being locked, or a forum warning being issued to the off-topic poster. isd ezwal community communication liaisons (ccls)"
"i live in deep null, and always have done. due to family commitments i am not currently in a strong pvp corp or alliance. i come on when i can and mess about a bit, often having to sort out the kids, cook dinner, put someone to bed, etc. so i spend a fair amount of the time i am logged on either docked or possed up. family life isnt compatible with fleets and roams.i have been playign now for 7 years and have a fair few friends in eve, several of which i encouraged to start playing. some are in high sec running missions. since my alliance is always war decced it isnt exactly possible for me to spend any game time with them unless i leave or get them to join my alliance. this is the problem i have with the current war dec system and i think it really hurts new player retention. i cant actually play with the people i have recruited into the game and if i dont i think there is a much lower chance of them staying around.im posting this here to encourage some discussion on the issue and see if you, from the other side of the war dec fence, can see a way this aspect of the game, which looks broken as hell from my point of view can be improved."
"well, you could drop corp and return to high-sec to play with your friends. or you could train an alt and use that to play in high-sec. or you could ask your friends to come to npc null-sec, jump in a wh or go have fun in low-sec. i have the same problems as you have. always at war and i cant go to null-sec and just cruise around a bit in my vindicator. does that make null-sec broken or should i just adapt ?"
"this post focuses on digging more into one of my program points, and summarize my thoughts or what i said about it in various medias.make sure new features that encourage small groups actions, like the siphons for example, do not get nerfed to uselessness before they are introduced by the established power groupsi chose to highlight siphons because i believe the way they have been released and discussed is very representative of the way features intended for one play style that ccp recognizes actively, yet get little support from the csm because of a lack of independent active voices.as a note, i do not use siphons myself for reasons i will explain more in a moment. this is sad as i have been very excited about them when they were released. the concept of guerilla warfare is one that i believe both independent solo players and small groups share a similar taste for. this is the ccp page introducing siphons. it is all about guerilla-warfare and this dev blog present siphons as introducing an asynchronous gameplay, something that is significant for the smaller entities. i can't dream to go head to head with a fleet of more than 2 or 3 individual players, so asynchronous gameplay is fairly attractive to me, and can generate smaller engagements i can take where a timer is just a lost cause in my case. the following community thread ended up being 77 pages long. two members of the csm participated publicly, one in a very minimal way at the beginning (ali aras), while mynna, representing the goons, kept her activity in that thread pretty high, together with plenty of other goons. this is interesting because of course they represent the main target of this new feature. so after a while, ccp decided to make a change at which point mynna mostly disappeared from the thread. i can't know what happened behind the scene, but it seems obvious that the goons got what they wanted from ccp. i wish that another csm member representing the other side would have been as active as mynna has been on that topic to defend the siphons. there was certainly no shortage of players debating in favor of the siphons effects, and as a csm member believing in asynchronous gameplay and guerilla warfare, i would have been all over that thread too..so siphons got released, their waste factor reduced from 20% to 10% (the power groups managed to reduce the more obvious damage to their production line, as siphoned content themselves can always be recovered once the siphon presence is identified). for reasons that i do not know about, ccp did not follow up on their promise that the siphons would not be identifiable by api, and naturally there is no pressure anymore to fix this as it benefits the power block with a quick and automated identification of the leaks.from my point of view, siphons are mostly useless until the apis stop ratting them out, and that is a pity. there are certainly a few things i would have advocated for them, like making them recoverable instead of being a certain net loss with a uncertain benefit for the people deploying them, as well as doubling the steal output with no wastage for the first 6 hours after being deployed, then having the current rates after that and a wastage factor increasing to 20% after the first day of them being deployed...if i am elected i will use my influence to defend the features that would allow beneficial guerilla against the larger groups.version fran<U+FFFD>aise"
"no wurries jens, i hope people just vote, ofcourse i prefer a number one spot, but in general i hope people care enough about eve and go vote, that they remain positive versus bittervet. any voter is a person who cares for eve.ballots hold 14 spots, i recommend people read up, do diedra s voting match, and vote mutiple persons. 77 nerds out therr to vote on, including me, provi and null sec addict"
"people who have no idea who i am do not want to talk in high sec. there is an overwhelming number of people there that treat eve as a solo game."
"manny #1"
"so many nice words, thanks!"
"also lol fixed some mistakes like:t2 cruisers should have been t2 logi frigatesdumb typo sorry fixed"
"bobmon is good guy :) +1"
"bobby ending up in csm should, at the very least, give us some interesting notes.let's just hope he doesn't end up having to be the one editing 'em :d.(edit: + 1/2 , but only because he asked nicely)"
"top priority!"
"+1 for a good csm candidate"
"dutch are #1+1"
"of all the applicants in the csm, i like you the best. you're a newer player and you don't have an agenda for yourself. you create content, you share it with others via youtube and because you're not in any of the major power blocks, you don't have any political issues in the game.you don't inherantly dislike anyone for their past exploits in the game, you deliver torpedoes mercilessly to complete strangers without prejudice.i don't know you personaly but in my opinion it doesn't seem like you're in it to boost your ego like so many others. you're in it because you played the game, you created a successful corporation, and you think it'd be cool to be on the csm for the experience and to share your views on the gameplay you love.i feel like when ccp bounces ideas off you, you will give them due research and time.this is why i think you, out of all the csm applicants will be the best person to analyse current and upcoming csm topics.i'm a very harsh and critical person and have already posted negative thoughts on other people's csm campaigns. i don't praise people often but out of everyone that has applied for csm, so far you're the best candidate in my opinion."
"that matches a lot of what i have talked about with the npe and the lore integration. i think it is a logical thing to push for."
"it's yours now."
"i would like to echo this. us lawn member's here showing support are doing so because we appreciate the dedication and competency that we've known thoric for in his duties as our alliance leader. perhaps one of the most important distinctions i'd like to raise is that being an alliance leader in eve is a volunteer job. thoric isn't getting paid for any of the time he spends here. he has no eve-media site generating ad-revenue for him. he is doing this because he has a passion and care for this game and the community that shares it. all of us players of eve would be very fortunate as a community if we get to enjoy having thoric as a csm member."
"llego tarde, pero tendr<U+FFFD>s 2 votos m<U+FFFD>os.i am late, but you'll have 2 votes from me."
"thank you for you kind responses."
"vote gorski!"
"he is very strong candidate in regards with his communication to the community, his desire to see a more robust 0.0 landscape and his desire to see supers and titans become more useful but hopefully not game breaking as they were/are now. however his stance on input duplication (he's against it) and his unknown position on other multiboxing tools leaves me very concerned. i hope he accepts my request for an discussion on one of our podcasts soon."
"your english was ok, but you sounded nervous as hell"
"what's your personal background, in real life? what kind of work are you in? does it help your chances of election, in your opinion? why or why not?i'm a graduate student finishing up an ma in geography. at the moment i help professors in my department with their classes. i don't think knowing my personal background/work will help or hurt my chances in the election, but i do think that if i win, my background will help make me a better csm representative. i can analyze problems and look at them from a broader perspective, as if eve is a country that needs to be financially stable with a sustainable and growing population.if you weren't running, but you could single-handedly ensure that any other person in eve would be elected to csm, who would you pick and why.sugar kyle. while i may not know much about lowsec, she certainly does. i hope she runs and wins every year as long as she plays the game. it's easy to see how much she cares about the long-term health of eve, and that is needed one every iteration of the csm.other than eve, what was your favorite game last year (2014)?clash of clans. an army friend got me into it and it's great for those long warps in 90% tidi.what was your experience with lowsec in the past?minimal. i spent a few months in lowsec prior to going to sov nullsec. i mined some and did a little pvp, but was mainly there to just hang out with some friends. they're the ones i initially joined in moving to nullsec.what kind of <U+FFFD>additional, challenging and dangerous pve content<U+FFFD> would you like to see brought to lowsec?i'm not very familiar with lowsec so until i spoke with someone like sugar kyle and got her feedback on whether lowsec has enough income streams, i wouldn't have any suggestions. there are probably some income streams that already exist which could be updated with additional difficulty or challenges... i'm a big fan of the hacking games in nullsec.what did you learn from your run for csm 9 that you think will help you this year?publicity is necessary to get votes.what marks you apart from the plethora of nullsec candidates running this year, other than your alliance ticker?my personality and perspective on eve... but that's going to be different for every single candidate on the ballot. if you're asking what i think makes me uniquely appealing, i'd say that i'm a nice guy who likes to listen, enjoys giving thoughtful feedback, and want to see everyone enjoy the game even if it's not the part of space that i enjoy."
"in your opinion, what could be done to encourage a more active pursuit of kill rights (i.e. true bounty hunting) as opposed to the current common theme of stumbling upon people and reaping some side benefits for an action you were already going to commit?non-expiring bounties. i'd propose changing the bounty system so that they never expire until the bounty is claimed, but the person who put the bounty on someone should be able to remove it as well. i think the bounty system could also be integrated into the locator agent system so that 'hunting' is more of a career than a difficult hobby.do you think that attributes should be removed entirely from eve online? if so, why. if not, what do attributes contribute in terms of valuable game play that warrant them staying?no, i don't. they're useful, but under-used. i think ccp needs to change the current skill queue some more so that skillbooks can be injected at skill level 0, but not trainable until the prerequisites are trained. a tutorial for new players explaining the skill queue, character attributes impact on skill training, and training implants should be thorough. under-use shouldn't be misinterpreted as 'useless'. lack of knowledge can be remedied with education.your campaign thread seems to be floundering a bit, suffering from a drought in terms of attention. do you feel you have a better shot this year than you did last? if you fail, will you run again next year?if i have the time next year, i'll run again. people with things to say online tend to generally be at one end or the other of the agree/disagree spectrum. the other candidates getting questions and giving good answers deserve attention. they may be better candidates than me in general, and some are certainly better than me for players looking for regional representatives of wormhole or lowsec space. i do think that i have a better chance this year than last.what is your stance on off-grid boosting? do you think it is a valid game play mechanic, as (in your words) <U+FFFD>off-grid t3 boosts are not completely invulnerable,<U+FFFD> or would you like to see changes made to force them to be active participants in fights?it's part of the game mechanics at the moment, but i think it gives older players a distinct advantage over newer ones. the only suggestion that i've heard for nerfing them that i didn't disagree with is that they could have a nerf to their bonuses based on range. in other words, the further a player is from the booster, the lower his bonuses would be. this wouldn't necessarily force boosters on-grid since there are tons of broken grids across eve. i suppose the players who sell virtue sets would be unhappy though.finally, if voters knew nothing else about you, what would you want that one thing to be?above all else, i want to see corporate management, pos mechanics/management, and planetary interaction updated, changed, or fixed completely rather than patched.... and i would want the changes released quicker than the sov changes which still have yet to fully be implemented while nullsec waits impatiently. my forum campaign thread explains my opinions and suggestions on these things in more detail."
"your ad."
"thanks for that!"
"i did quite a bit of blogging about csm 8's elections, tenure and actions. at the end of the year i posted my personal perception of csm 8 grades i would have given. while i can't claim to be an insider or know what happened in individual sessions, i did do a lot of analysis of what did become public.tldr: i gave sort a c-. the only reason it wasn't lower is because he did in fact participate in summits.only kesper north got a lower grade (f) for not appearing at all.in my book, #13 of 14 does not merit another shot.author of interstellar privateer shattered planets, wormholes and game commentary"
"many times i hear those in player corps wanting people to leave an npc corp. i'm asked what would i need to be offered, or have changed, to get me to leave cas. i've discussed just that a number of times in fleet, or in corp chat with others in cas and player corps. sometimes the discussions are short, sometimes long, and many varied points of view come out when it is discussed.lets be honest, npc corps are looked at by player corps and player corp members in many cases as a drain from possible recruits. they are seen as useless, boring, worthless by others. and even then the disparaging comments of others go far further. so, lets look in a bit of detail at what i feel are the absolute successes of cas, which some (but not even a majority of) player corps can say with confidence they've found as well. and upon looking at these successes, see what i feel should be worked on by all corporations, and the ccp devs to bring about truly positive changes in eve online's image.the center for advanced studies, for many new players they don't even know they've selected a npc corp during character creation, but suddenly they are in it and fairly lost. at any given time several hundred players are active in cas, many not even bothering to say a single word in corp chat, or unable to due to language barriers. but here is the new player, and he/she is asking about joining a corp, or how to do something that the tutorials cover (and those tutorials are a massive failure). the responses, from sometimes dozens of people, those form the foundation of what the players expectations can be for this game. and in cas they run the gamut of truly helpful and kind, to snide and smug, but in the majority of instances you get actual helpful comments and replies in cas (from players as young as a few days old, to some who have been in cas for over 10 years).it's about community, a feeling that 'hey, i'm not alone here'; and having people who found a home and spend time in that home helping the newbros who come into it. i've been in most of the npc starter corps at one time or another, and the only one that had that welcoming feeling, that feeling of helpfulness, was cas. and that, that, resonates with new players and old. it even brings out a feeling of pride in cas members, because in 'cas, we do stuff!'.how many other npc corps have a 24/7 nullsec presence? how many have allied corps of former members that work daily with the npc corp members?cas runs or is a main part of many things in eve. cas combat day (ccd), cas combat guild (allied guilds, and cas members who roam or live in nullsec), cas mining alliance fleet mining (daily), cashole (cas and allied guilds c1 wh), cas incursions, cas explorations, cas pve fleet.on the other hand, we don't baby newbros. if you won't help yourself, why should we do it for you? eve isn't easy. eve takes effort to be successful in. but cas can and will help those that need it, and are trying to succeed.so, my counter question is this. what does a player corp offer, or is willing to do, in order to successfully recruit someone that has as much as you do available?"
"your campaign ad is ready."
"civil, glad to see a rolo brotha running for csmx. i'll be back after while to ask some questions, but i will say that i may ask you to provide some wormhole credentials to these super groovy voters so we can roll you in as a wormhole candidate as well......we are lacking that area this year. +1"
"unfortunately civilwars is not on leeloo's candidate list, and is therefore not a valid candidate.too bad, really author of interstellar privateer shattered planets, wormholes and game commentary"
"hopefully this will be similar to the issue that psianh and i ran into last year and is just delays in approval because :paperwork:let us know, civil!"
"thanks aram, hope things are going well for you my friend."
"it seems logical to me, right? the engine already supports quite a few simultaneous players on-screen, but work would need to be done to render each custom avatar and clothing to a single texture. also a way to group things so that you don't have thousands of players all in the same room. perhaps some sort of grid-spacing system, that naturally keeps people from entering a room that is full, so that they have to stand outside. obviously some thought and time would need to go into challenges like that, but the underlying code would be something i think they should build upon, instead of trying to reinvent the wheel.also, since the eve incarna portion would not require any shooting mechanics, it would enable quite a few more players to be in the same room, enabling both small tavern-like places with only room for a certain number of seedy characters, or large halls with huge ceilings and multiple levels, like mass effect's citadel presidium.further, eve is moving to on-demand assets shortly, which allows the eve core game, with all things eve (legion, valkyrie, eve spaceships, eve barbie in stations) downloaded, could be 20 - 50 gb. those that only play eve spaceships yet still want to download the entire game, can choose to download only the spaceship assets, in the eve downloader settings. of course the players should decide what they want to play when they enter the eve universe. if they leave their captain's quarters and take the tube transport to their favorite cantina, then the assets will be loaded on demand, and the wait for the tube to arrive would also work as a way to load things. (elevators in real life aren't instantaneous, nor should they be in eve).i think we're past the original burn jita days, and the constant iterations to flying in space is great. it's now time to rethink how to bring all of the visions of eve together into a single universe."
"i'll be there :)"
"i'd love to participate!"
"i won't be there but maybe you could ask ccp something: if they planing to give the next gen poses forcefields too, given that 99% of all issues with poses are caused by them. (bumping exploits, skynet, ogbs@forcefields, invincible titan bridges, cyno-inside-forcefield \"tricks\", you name it)(i am assuming that poses are still on the roadmap for a redesign)"
"1.0"
"ill try to get along to this one"
"send me the info i'd love to come to this."
"drawing attention to yourself like this will guarantee you'll end up with lots of pvp'ers looking to make your missions in lowsec...interesting.welcome to the sandbox."
"i actually share the sentiment, although the solution should be in the opposite direction.it is currently 100% risk free to gank missioners. no pvp should be risk free.give all ships an innate point, equal to a t1 meta zero point. yes, rookie ships included. eve is a pvp game, point should be innate. rookies/carebears/whoever else should have the capacity to present risk from day one, no matter how small."
"a corp full of noobs should probably disband, tbh, because it's almost certainly never going to get anywhere.[/quote]yeah, like bni. that's gone nowhere really fast.except there's nothing that stops this from happening with tweaks to wardec mechanics. i am not talking about corps which wardec alliances in order to disrupt their operations intentionally, but wardec corps who literally send out wardecs in bunches of 20-50 at a time with the entire purpose of fishing for kills. they completely negate the idea of risk versus reward, since the only people at risk are those who are targeted. i'm not trying to bring an end to highsec wardecs, i'm arguing against fishing corps who abuse a flimsy wardec mechanic in order to get easy kills. what does it even cost to wardec most corps? 500mil isk at the most? is that a joke? i made 500mil isk doing incursions on an alt today, so i can pay for wardec expenses against any size corp in the game?they blanket too much area. you apparently bribe one political figure and you're covered everywhere. this is like bribing a cop in mexico in getting away with murder from the tip of south africa to the streets of moscow. people can still retain the ability to use wardecs while limiting their endless, arbitrary reach. instead of bribing concord to easily throw out wardecs at anything, because there's no consequences for the wardeccer, make them actually have to do some footwork. pay per region rather than a flat, incredibly cheap, fee that blankets all of known highsec space.you can run that \"eve is a dark place\" stuff elsewhere. i've been playing for five years all across eve, in highsec, lowsec, nullsec and wh space. i probably spent about 6 months of that time doing any amount of industry focused gameplay and the rest has been pvp. it's never changed my view that warsec mechanics are poor and full of holes. it's a broken feature that is incredibly easy to abuse, period.it needs a review, even if it's not top priority it is something that does need to be looked at in the future. in nullsec, there are restrictions and how far you can chase someone because of basic game mechanics. jump range limits your ability to tear across the universe to endlessly hunt a group of player. you can pay renter fees in spaces which you are more welcome in order to have some level of security. there are no such barriers in highsec. if someone wants to chase you, they can follow you until the edge of highsec space with no challenges, no risk and no consequences. nullsec had its power projection nerf, how about for highsec now? nerf a highsec wardeccers corps' ability to project power across all of highsec with no real cost to them. this is the sort of thing i'd love to see in a future csm candidate, someone who sees that there are inherent issues in the highsec wardec mechanics. they would have my vote."
"the human mind is a funny thing."
"after researching all of the 77 candidates, steve is one of only nine to earn a full endorsement from me. he's on my list and he should be on yours."
"or you know, an alt."
"i don't have alts, also; nice jaw line."
"someone's jealous."
"it's aram, he doesn't drink kool-aid, although he may have more wicked motives than trolling.now, this #laughgate thing intrigues me, but i won't click the yt-links because last time i watched a xenuria video, i had bursts of laughter and bursts of depression (in his videos, xenuria does come across as sincerely deluded, it's eerie!), so can anyone provide a transscript or a summary?thanks!"
"cant tell if you are a scrub or a peasant or both. quit hating on xenuria"
"thus thread has gotten interesting again. :popcorn:"
"i will vote for you, lorelei lerendi. i don't know if the caldari navy intelligence self destruct device is your idea, but i'd love that to be advocated.additionally, as for the bounty mechanics, if it hadn't been suggested before, i would like to see a \"bounty hunter\" skill set, raising the payout significantly higher than it is currently.as for wardeccs, and player corporations generally, what is your view in raising wardecc cost / concord bribe 10 to 100 fold, aswell as corporation creation cost. both also could be raised in difficulty with skills.nachbar gr<U+FFFD><U+FFFD>e!"
"thanks for stopping by my thread to ask questions! :)the idea is so good that i am sure that something similar must have been suggested before, but i did not read it anywhere.i actually got the idea whilst listening to code. players talking about how undesirable it is to be afk... i thought how best to reward a player for not being afk... and how a non-afk player (in a single account) can best defend himself from different forms of ganking. that is what i came up with.oh, and i am sure that the caldari navy intelligence have something like that... just do not want to give it out. where are the elite spies when you need them!something has to be done about the bounties.well i have advocated more the \"non-deccable, no pos \"corporation\"\" as a means for players being able to group together and avoid wardecs.i think once a wardec is running, then it is unfair to the deccer to have it so easily defeated (dissolve corp and reform). so we need a mechanic that:1) allows groups of players to avoid being wardecced, in exchange for having (as a group) no real tangible influence on in-game structures, taxes et cetera.2) allows wardecs to be meaningful declarations of war that persist until resolved (either diplomatically, or when no longer paid for).3) allows it to be possible to bring in as many allies as wanted - on both sides of a fight. the increasing costs per ally make involving other players less likely because: people want to hold out to see if good pvpers / mercs want to help.i talked more about this here:"
"aye, lord vaari has my vote and support!"
"i would totally play eve golden mountain edition"
"i pledge my support in favor of lord vaari. my he serve with honor!"
"+1 for lord vaari"
"praise be to the beloved hero +1"
"we support you dear sweet lord vaari"
"a few days till the voting starts. \/endorsement list :* bobmon* xander phoena* corebloodbrothers* corbexx* sabriz* manfred sideous* sion kumitomo* steve ronuken* migui x<U+FFFD>hyrrn* endie von posts(random order)"
"somebody get that man a palme d'or!eve down under - a community for players in the autz"
"after researching all of the 77 candidates, bam is one of only nine to earn a full endorsement from me. he's on my list and he should be on yours."
"after researching all of the 77 candidates, corbexx is one of only nine to earn a full endorsement from me. he's on my list and he should be on yours."
"this post focuses on digging more into one of my program points, and summarize my thoughts or what i said about it in various medias.make sure api data availability does not provide too much out of game information, and allow some kind of in-game data privacy option.my goal is not to make api data disappears altogether. api have a large role to play in a mmo such as eve, and there are a lot of excellent third parties' tools that use them, but...the amount of information api generates automatically is too prevalent in the metagame and favors large groups with the it capabilities to sift through the data and identify information. this is currently too exact, without even needing to log in. what i support will not fundamentally change available information, but as it will involve players<U+FFFD> action, it will not be as exact and will add a fog of <U+FFFD>metagaming<U+FFFD> war effect.my main focus is around the killboards' data, as i am not as familiar with the other aspects of the api, even if i believe that each api aspect should be looked at with the concept of fog of \"metagaming\" war in mind... what i'd like to see regarding the killboards is that players opting for privacy would not have their destroyed modules in any killmails, so that the exact value of their fit would not be represented with such accuracy. all the other information would still be there as it is now. more importantly, i'd like to see a human factor to the data gathering, and limit the all-automatic nature of killboard data uploading, when apis have only been shared by one side. privacy for each character would be considered for any killmail, and if any of the pilot involved in the killmail has their privacy setting set to on, the killmail would not be automatically uploaded to any killboards, but the player receiving the kill mail would still be free to upload those themselves once they have it. if all pilots involved have not opted for privacy then it would stay exactly as it is now.this is the only extent of this aspect of my program, and i believe it is fair to intorduce a concept of fog of \"metagaming\" war around the apis, with more involvement of players choices.i have also mentioned in my post about siphons about the consequence of a too precise api data system, that allows to locate wich poses are under a siphon effect from out-of-game. when api have a direct effect on in-game features, there are questions to be asked, as i believe it only benefit a specific section of the player base at the expense of others...version fran<U+FFFD>aise"
"gorski car blogged about skynet, and brings a possible solution i would fully support.skynet has to go..."
"this post focuses on digging more into one of my program points, and summarize my thoughts or what i said about it in various medias.encourage new features that would truly allow for a nomadic life style in new eden.new eden is huge, and only small parts of its vastness beyond high sec are heavy with activities from the current sovereignty holders (null sec) or inhabitants (low sec and wh) while most of it remains nearly deserted except for the automated poses that get only get visited once in a while, or the occasional or regular farmer. the permanency of the eve servers and single world approach adds to that emptiness from the simple timezones requirements, as a system may be bustling on au tz zone, and be a desert a few hours later or earlier in in eu tz. the introduction of wormholes has created real possibilities to be more nomadic as the gates to null-sec are not anymore single points of passages. we can roam deeper via wormholes routes, while remaining only a few jump away from home. but we still all need a home that is a fixed feature. home can be an station or a pos. both are the main places where our assets can be stored reasonably safely for long amount of time. for most of eve pilots, it is where you can start from and roam around, and then come backships like rorqual, or orca immediately comes to mind as potential staples of nomadic life, but today risking them for long amount of time away from home is a huge risk for those that are not looking to establish or increase their sovs. other options includes setting up temporary poses and dismounting them but carrying those limit the capability to transport other things and benefit from the nomadism.here are a few concepts i'd like to discuss more with everyone, to encourage seeing nomadic outpost in the most deserted parts of new eden (and i fully understand that the upcoming activity based sovereignty may change some things in that aspect in the next year).- a concept of a ship that can morph into a pos, thus not having to carry the necessary weight to bring a pos infrastructure with you- some kind of respawn bay (no jump clone!) that could allow nomadic players losing a fight and podded to not get totally cut out of their nomadic assets, so as to encourage them to participate in fights instead of clamming up.- a nomadic outpost would not necessarily have timers like structures have, and once deployed should still have defenses that only a coordinated efforts from a fleet would be able to take out, without needing capital action. - the capacity for ships that would become a staple of this nomadism to use any wh (so having a max mass like an orca) and possibly tie this to the black ops redesign and capabilities to bridge such ships across more dangerous areas.version fran<U+FFFD>aise"
"mike:should ratting be changed to encourage pvp fits? current ratting's focus on a single damage type and a single resist encourages pve-specialized fits, which in my opinion gives attackers an advantage they do not need.should ccp adapt the same ai they're testing out with drifters to regular rats?would visible timers for the duration of post-jump cloaking and undock invincibility (similar to the current timers for jump fatigue and aggression) benefit the game?should damage control be turned into an always-on module instead of a manually-activated one?"
"after researching all of the 77 candidates, mike is one of only nine to earn a full endorsement from me. he's on my list and he should be on yours."
"i know i already endorsed sabriz, but i think given my new situation that it's appropriate that i reaffirm that."
"after researching all of the 77 candidates, sugar kyle is one of only nine to earn a full endorsement from me. she's on my list and she should be on yours."
"after researching all of the 77 candidates, endie is one of only nine to earn a full endorsement from me. he's on my list and he should be on yours, even if you're not a sov null player."
"endie,do you think there should be some incentive for sov-holding alliances to move around new eden, for example for space to somehow degrade over time, therefore encouraging alliances to relocate and fight for better space and creating conflict and content.for example we have some blocks (cfc, but not only them) which have sat unmoving in the same space for years and years. this discourages conflict."
"after researching all of the 77 candidates, manny is one of only nine to earn a full endorsement from me. he's on my list and he should be on yours, even if you're not a sov null player."
"appreciate the support and endorsement will do my best to live up to it."
"what other mmos have you played? how many of eve's new players do you think play other mmos? what habits from other mmos do they have to unlearn to become proper eve players?should there be a way to see the grid outside of your station without actually undocking?should there be visible timers for post-jump cloak and undock invincibilty, similar to the ones for aggression and jump fatigue?what types of scams in eve should be preserved and which should be eliminated/hampered by mechanics or ui changes?what changes would you like made or added to the ship icons in the overview and on the main window?what's your definition of a bad fight?what changes would you make to eve's chat interface to make it easier for leadership to handle dozens of channels and private convos?should buyers be able to see who's selling the goods they're buying before they buy them? should buyers be able to buy goods from specific sellers, even if they're not the lowest-priced goods, rather than automatically buying the cheapest ones?should damage control be a passive module instead of an activated one?are there llamas in iceland?"
"new idea: security status reworkevery region gets a pool of security (based on size and distance from empire). if you rat then the security status of a system goes up (to 0.0). but systems that you are not using get less secure, making them more valuable over time. this will mean that you have to move around in order to make the most money. this will make space more valuable and it would attack cloaky camping, seeing that they cant sit in one spot anymore. it would also stimulate to make alliance more logistical and it would encourage an alliance to fully use their region. this will drive content which is always a good thing"
"\"hey guys, we want people to be actually out and using their space, so let's punish them for being out and using their space.\"this idea isn't anything new and has never actually been good. so throw out the bad idea and step back. what's the goal, what's the reasoning? people should be rewarded for being out and using their space, but there should be \"content\". what's \"content\" mean here? pvp, of course. that's what it always means in this context, right?so movement is good, because movement means taking gates, and you're never quite sure what's on the other side of the gate. or you are, because your pals are out, flying around, skirmishing with intruders and providing you with intel. either way, movement good. but degrading the quality of a system to induce movement, that's bad. so what to do? implement missions, perhaps. simple answer, boring answer, but it gets the job done. no reason it has to be exactly missions of course. residents install an alliance command hub in each system which, among other things, directs pilots to newly discovered pirate incursions. \"sorry pilot, the serpentis have withdrawn from the system to lick their wounds, but they've launched a new incursion two systems away. i've added a bookmark to your journal; good luck.\" get there, wipe out your very own incursion - two serpentis forsaken hub and a serpentis haven - and you've beaten them back, have to go somewhere else. of course because this is a game and because we want to maintain a fairly high population density (as people with friends nearby are more likely to group up and fight back instead of just hide) the fact that the system is depleted for you doesn't necessarily mean it's depleted for a corpmate. he shows up twenty minutes later and has two or three sites to himself, as does the next fellow ten minutes after that and so on. thus infinite pve content for an arbitrary number of people to be able to live in an area, yet content that obliges those people to move around and be content.and this is part of the function of the csm. we're not game designers, no, but when ccp comes to you and goes \"what do you think of _______, it's supposed to accomplish _______\" tackle it objectively, think like the player you are, and imagine how it might be broken, might fail because we players do the damndest things."
"i know how the csm works just trying to give people an idea to think about / discuss. thx for your responds though, cause thats also a way you can look at it! and i agree that we players always f up the devs intentions xd"
"after researching all of the 77 candidates, chance is one of only nine to earn a full endorsement from me. he's on my list and he should be on yours."
"damjan, i didn't want you to think i was ignoring your post. i'd like to address a few things. we never blackmailed anyone. we extorted them. your friend specifically told me that wingspan was \"not the reason\" he was quitting streaming. you quoted me saying i think streams should show players the game is interesting. i believe may of the streamers' viewers learned exactly how dynamic eve can be. if someone wardecced e-uni, it would present corp leadership the opportunity to teach its students how to evade war targets. my ego is already plenty boosted by this incredibly sexy orange jacket. and no, i don't believe in spamming anyone with \"htfu\" messages, and if anyone in my corp has done this to you, i would like to see the screencaps so i can reprimand them."
"thanks for that bellak.also guys don't forget to check out my just for crits q & a:"
"wow - 77 running, this could get interesting ;)"
"don't let the cronies down in cfc-ville control the csm! vote for independents like harry!"
"to combat the n+1 fight strategy, some have suggested reducing the effectiveness of logistic cruisers. logi can keep 1 side from losing anything, and if both sides bring enough, it's a stalemate.is reducing the effectiveness of logistic cruisers a good approach to deal with the \"whoever brings the most ships wins\" strategy?in large scale combat, sensor damps are the only commonly used ewar. do you think ecm, target painters or tracking disruptors needs a buff?"
"honestly, i have always hated the implementation of clerics or whatever other games call them (i.e. healers and buffers) into eve. it turned what was a great spaceship battle field type game into \"just another mmo\" like freakin wow, where you need to have all the correct party members to have a happy group outing (i don't play wow, but saw all i needed from neverrest....er everguest). so, while the current chant is death to all supers (which i also think ccps eyes got way too big when they launched the bright idea of going bigger bigger bigger, as though a battle freaking ship class isn't enough from a single pod pilot perspective) i would almost want to chant death to all logi....but, they are here, so i will answer the question given.currently big n+1 fleets are very linear in design and implementation because everything that isn't dps or logi is just too big of a pita, or trying to be too cute by a half (however that saying goes). simplicity rules the day when trying to deal with large numbers + the potential of going into a tidi slow moving nightmare. variety on the battlefield would be nice but ultimately, the objective in large scale chaos is to blow up the other things, and traditionally that is done with direct violence, not nuanced dancing (i can't imagine the pain of prolonging an already painfully slow 10% tidi fight). if this game was actually scalable in performance, it would be a different story, but reality is what it is.so, even if they were given a buff, the underlying issues would make those buffs translate to an awful game experience, regardless of how cool it would be to see a real fight ensue based on positioning, flanking, and nuanced stratagems.aside from the above, we do need more parity in the long run.like i said in prior posts, i don't think the \"have it our way\" mentality of ccp dictated ship design is a real long term answer. all we will ever see are large swings in unintended consequences of the this or that nerf/buff to various types/roles/bonuses/applications of ships. what we really need is player generated parity through manufacture and design to bring out real innovation and dynamics when it comes to fleet design and implementation.if i suddenly were granted powers to nerf logi and buff ewar it would just be shuffling macro-poo around the table, and forcing people into predetermined classes and ships that happen to be good today. the cycle of searching for the perfect balance from the top down needs to be slowly moved away from over time. a bottom up approach where users drive the balance through the customizations they introduce in the manufacturing process will shift the onus of balance from over-tasked developers (who would then be free to work on the actual game experience and world level improvements) to the player base, and something that is a horrible experience now, will turn into insightful meaningful gameplay for all types.devs could then focus on the game experience and improvements in the tools we use to shape the world, but ultimately we would be driving and dictating advances of various \"things to do\" with ships, and roles to be played."
"after researching all of the 77 candidates, ash is one of only nine to earn a full endorsement from me. he's on my list and he should be on yours."
"it appears ash is also on eveoganda's list!"
"hello. some questions for you:you mention the importance of lore and how it manifests itself in the game. what are your thoughts of the representations of the pirate factions and players' capabilities to engage with them at present and how they might be improved if at all? speaking honestly, give an example of a nerf to an in game activity that you were involved in in the past year that hit you hard but that you feel on balance was a good change for the game as a whole. aideron robotics is , or has been, to my knowledge, a low sec resident community. how do you feel about low-sec's current status in the game regarding pvp content, isk opportunities, and the fw system overall. thank you for your time,fang"
"this is the part where you watch my video."
"thankfully thoric frosthammer is not an aspirant of our lord and savior micro-jump-drive"
"this is relevant to my interests."
"from thorics favorite problem child lets take a moment to realise how good of a leader this man is. i mean come on he deals with me on a daily basis :d<3"
"good night sweet prince"
"although my discussions with mr. frosthammer have been limited, he's shown the traits i idealize in a leader and a representative:calm.ready to listen.has done his research.values logic over volume. best regards, -shan"
"your campaign ad"
"hello csm voters and candidates!declarations of war podcast will do it's part to bring you excellent csm related content, continuing our well received issue roundtables from the last election. this year we've got to do things a little differently due to the very condensed nature of this election, with less than a week between the candidates being announced and the opening of the polls, and the overwhelming interest in running being shown by over 75 candidates.we're going to have three panels being recorded and released the same day. rather than have it be invite only, i'm throwing open the time slots for open sign ups. key points: candidates, post below or eve mail alekseyev karrde if you're interested and can commit to the time slotthere are 5 candidate slots for each panel, plus an alternate. i'll edit this post as they fill up. dow reserves the right to make a mix of csm9 incumbents, returning candidates from last year, and newcomers if there's overwhelming interest in a certain panel. dow reserves the right to accept or decline interested candidates for any reason at our sole discretion 19:00 the changing role of the csm and the ccp/csm relationship-aeon boirelle-khador vess-domanark--alt:21:00 town hall*-psianh auvyander-steve ronuken-borat guereen-ariete-june tingalt: *we'll welcome the audience onto our ts to ask questions to the candidates live. address: noirmercs.compw (will be in effect 15 min before the first event): csmxwatch this thread and @grrusso for more details"
"assuming the times are eve time, i can do either (or both, but that's probably greedy ) of the second two. (i work till 17:30 eve, unfortunately)"
"pick your poison steve! if there's a spot free i'd let you do double duty but with 77 candidates i suspect that wont be the case."
"i do not feel compelled to talk for two hours about this, i think you can interject what pretty much everyone agrees is the problems and their logical solutions:1) when timers come out -> defender's choice. problem? time it to land in the weekend.2) defense -> the more active the occupancy, the greater the defenses."
"hi, im around for all slots so yeah :)"
"i'm hoping for the sessions to go 60-90 minutes. there's some padding in there to arrange guests, take drinks, etc.also we're gonna go a liiiitle more in depth than that lol."
"very nice, aleks. hope these fill up and we get some good roundtables to listen to this year."
"i would love to join in on the town hall session or alternatively the changing role of the csm and the ccp/csm relationship"
"lets go for the townhall then"
"sadly on holidays, 9 days of no eve, just started, goodluck with the orginasation, takes always more work then public realises"
"so, when do we get to vote for folk most of us have never heard of?"
"it<U+FFFD>s a sunday and i have spent the entire day playing eve. after a successful fleet, a small splinter group of dedicated pvp'ers make the two jumps from our station to camp a pipe, which is pretty much all we do while we're logged in. an hour passes with one or two kills, then with a perfectly executed manoeuvre we make our glory kill."
"hell why not, but promise me you will make sure the cms x ccp meeting notes will be released only after 2 months.....days was overkill....we did not have any time to adjust."
"xander definitely deserves another go, even if it means having to wait months between cz eps. it's a bitter pill ;)"
"xander:just wanted to mention that i enjoyed your cap stable interview. indeed, in some cases, i thought your answers were better than the questions. i look forward to dragging you to my voting block later this week.-- alan mathison, explorer & industrialist, star tide industries"
"thanks dude. the cap stable dudes have done amazing work this year and i was very relieved that they managed to squeeze me in at the end. glad that my answers worked for you too."
"vote for this guy. he is a legit fun haver."
"responding to an in game mail from shadowandlight, with permission to re-post the response here.1)i am against input duplication in eve online. manually operating several clients however, is perfectly fine. 2)if it requires an additional program to run, then it is the computer playing the game for you, and my response would be that i am against that. i dabble in programing for my real job, and i see how interesting it can be to program a virtual army of eve characters and pit it against new eden, or other virtual capsuleer armies, but i do not believe eve is the right place for it.3)given current game mechanics, yes. when off-grid links are no longer a thing, maybe, but then there are still lots of compelling reasons to have multiple characters logged on, such as industry/hauler alts, cyno alts, supercap alts, etc. the game's design at the moment is heavily biased to having very specialized characters. you could even reasonably describe faction warfare as a game of alts given present standings mechanics. some sort of arbitrary limit seems difficult to place, rather as long as software isn't used to enhance or streamline, as many as you want really.4)false parallelism is sort of a no-no, and i see any and all comparisons of eve to either of those two games to be heavily pushing this fallacy, unless they are full of all the errata that would go with such a comparison. this seems impossible given the wall of mechanics, as well as years of people valuing and depending on their alts. 5)give people reasons not to multibox, carrots, rather than just sticks, bans, and punishments. put links on grid, so they require an active pilot that is part of the team. logi belongs on killmails, so people aren't tempted to just relegate that to alts; its part of the team. even putting links on killmails would be good, so the \"true soloist' can have something, whereas all other pretenders now have their solo mail filled up with logi and links alts. you can take this further, especially with pve activities. currently it makes far more sense to multibox ratting or mining characters than having each one be a real person playing together, doing something together. the game's design itself makes me want to have 3 characters each running a barge or ishtar separately, rather than me giving full attention to one client with two friends in the other ships. there is no arbitrary limit that i am interested in seeing, rather, limiting the reasons why people do multibox seems to be the better solution. treat the disease, not the symptoms."
"join 'lyonic's bar' ingame i you want a chatits great fun listening to the guys who rule the show, but i want to know what the guys who are fighting the good fight in lowsec and nullsec want. interceptors and ishtars online is getting stale. everyone has capital abilities and old nullsec entrances camped by masive fleets lie barren 10 jumps each way, with those fleets eve history. take the money away from the comfort and security of highsec; highsec is the #1 problem with eve. ccp needs to understand that moon income goes to alliance and not the individual members. incursions: you can make more isk per hour than any ratting area in nullsec. why should someone bother joining a nullsec corp/alliance when he can x up and make great isk per hour with the space police at his back? ice mining: i really do not understand why anything bar veldspar can be mined in highsec, the flow of income should be high>low>null. period. anything else is broken. level 4 missions: move them to lowsec; pretty simple. boosters need a revampthe whole slot layout, effects, penalties.. everything needs a total overhaul. one idea that came up was that you should be able to use boosters to combat people with links when flying solo: so i could take a booster to give me skrmish linkscloaky camping removes any point in owning a system for ratting or miningi used to be in a renting alliance, all our systems were camped and no one could do anything. some afk guy not playing, was stopping 20 dudes. another reason not to go to nullsec.if people recieve links/heals from an alt or bro. it should show on the kill mailits only fair if you use an advantage for killing to let people know that you had an edgedockable supersif you can build a super in a pos, why cant you build a station big enough in the deepest parts of nullsec?why should people be able to unplug implants outside of a station/pos?pods need to be unable to unplug implants and be able to drop some form of implant component or straight up drop implants.howcome killboards and the thought of losing stop people from enjoying eve?i see it all the time, people don't want to undock solo becaue they are scared to lose a ship or incase their killboard gets messy. the truth is by staying in station and waiting for someone else to make 'content' they wont get any better. it's become about getting on mails rather than having a fight.content should not be sitting on titan for 2 hours only to get some tidi fight for 3 hours. its always been about the little guy... just having enough to kill that small gang who came into his patch.========================================================the big one.use plex to buy skillpoints (set amount or %) or speed up training timeby reducing the huge disadvantage new players have in eve. when a new player starts in eve he has 2 things going against him:1. he can't get in or fit the cool ships that made him want to play in the first place2. he does not have the experience to fly the ships.so how do we fix this? the answer is really simple, you take the sp advantage away. now i have been playing since 2007 and i know how much people think they own their characters and how they think they have achieved something by getting high sp. i tell you now, you have nothing, its an illusion. does the thought of easy sp for say plex disgust you? well its already happening right now. character bazar. i can buy a 200 million skill pointed character right now for plex. i dont care about these illusions i care about new people coming in and injecting some fun back into eve. your advantage is number 2 by the way, you have the in-game knowledge of how stuf works so use it. why do people still play things like dota or counter strike? because you dont start with some crazy disadvantage as a new player. it is peoples knowledge of the maps, the modules, the shiptypes all that good stuff that gives you the edge.. not the perfect skills bro... let it go..what do we do with highsec?..."
"during a talk with some fcs, i decided that in addition to alliance bookmarks, i'd like to push to get 'fleet bookmarks' added to the game. anyone in fleet would be able to make them (capped at 50?), but only fleet boss or fleet/wing commanders would be able to remove them. they would expire from a pilot's people & places 2 hours after the last person leaves fleet, or as soon as they join a different/new fleet.this will benefit pvp immensely, but also industry/mining."
"your campaign ad"
"this is great, thanks a lot for your contribution!"
"i am very much behind better representation for the multiboxing community. currently i feel that we are not represented at all. we have one csm member stating that it is cheating while multiboxing! and ludicrous claims that 99% of the community want multiboxing banned altogether. but most of all it is the total silence on ccps part. ccp know how many multibox and how many accounts they typically use at the same time, they know just how big this community is. how do you propose to even get traction that is clearly a thorny issue on both sides, players and ccp alike? and by traction i mean just some more honest and upfront discussion that doesn't descend into name calling and mud slinging. even your thread here is already demonstrated how hard it is with just players, and the huge gulf of misunderstandings. in the official thread ccp have remained totally silent. negligently so in fact. fwiw i have 3 accounts i use at once, but mostly just 2. i use a os that would and can do anything isboxer can do just as a normal window manager software on linux (yea that thing called windows is 3rd party software your using to run eve people, even lowly windows has many tricks if you know what your doing). i have refrained from getting an extra 3 accounts because of the issue sounding this. 1, its the shifting sand of what i can do now, i may not be able to do in the future. 2, total lack of clarity from ccp."
"i agree that a large part of the community is against third party applications but utilizes a ton of third party applications all of the time. i have thought about going to linux myself and using basically os programming to accomplish the same thing as isboxer, but still find my isboxer easier to use and thus continue to use it. so, as far as real discussion i think it honestly has to start with ccp. the community and a lot of ignorant mob mentality will occur no matter what the issue is, multi-boxing or not. i see ccp's clarification and lack there of as the higher issue. i am not sure if we have a csm member pushing for clarification or not, which is why i am running. this is appalling and downright childish not to respond to your playerbase.i will strongly disagree that 99% of eve wants multi-boxing removed, they are more in arms about how multi-boxing is being accomplished. this game is designed for multi-boxing and alts. to the very core, they advertise it as such, alot of basic mechanics are geared towards being alt friendly or required. the skill queue itself limits what you can do with one character. this is not going away and ccp will never remove multi-boxing completely but i think they need to pay more attention to it at the moment.check out my podcast! my blog!"
"having received some good questions from shadowandlight via forum mail, i feel that i should answer them so that all can be informed on my stance to those questions.my direct question to you the canidates is: (from shadowandlight)- are you for or against input duplication in eve online- are you for or against the various tools listed above (isboxer, autohotkey, mutli button keyboards etc)- should players be able to control multiple accounts in eve online, if so, should their be a limit?- a ccp spokesperson recently stated that he would like to see eve being brought to 1 person = 1 pilot, i am assuming along the lines of games lik elite dangerous and star citizen. your thoughts?- if ccp does decide to limit mulitboxing in eve (which it appears they have started to) would game design changes make more sense vs. banning players or do you feel this is a correct path for them to currently follow.thank you for your questions shadowandlight. i myself am a limited multiboxer at times, so i can understand your concerns to some degree. i personally have never used a third party program to facilitate multiboxing. though i have over the years spoken with a number of people who have done so in various games. lets move on to answering your questions.1) as a multiboxer at times (up to three accounts active), i don't use those accounts cooperatively. so, i have never felt the need for input duplication within eve. i do on the other hand have some background in programming, as well as testing of games, and realize there are issues with input duplication that can cause concern to developers and players. putting aside the obvious concern segments of a player base about 'bot armies', i find myself against input duplication for a couple of reasons.firstly, information processing priority. this is seen most prominently during time dilation. with spikes in data input from a single ip source the possibility of similtinaity can become a rather large issue. the more data commands in the same time segment the more conflicts the cpu's have in determining priority/timing, which can increase server loads. this can lead to odd issues with timing (which you can see in many videos on large fleet pvp), where prioritization of commands (such as module effect timing) can become somewhat disorganized and lead to the exploitation of server priority functions to a given end.secondly, there is the well deserved caution against exploitation of systems beyond a level of decency. i am not saying that multiboxers look for and use exploits, but that the use of input duplication can lead to the use of a system in such a way as to exploit the ability to use that system to break the balance of the system itself. a good example i have seen in video and screenshots being multibox mining fleets of 30+ ships stripping an asteroid belt clean of asteroids in a system within the first hour or two of server up. this is exploiting the system to a degree, and input duplication allowed these 'one man many alt' fleets to flourish.2) third party input duplication programs i am against. multifunction keyboards/mice/trackballs/etc i am not against. i feel that one click allowing one person to give the exact same command to multiple client instances can cause issues that effect the system detrimentally. i am not against short macro commands, limited to 2-3 sequential commands (example: cloak (f1) then mwd (f2) with click of function button whatever). but each instance of eve should have it's commands input seperately.i am also not against the non-input duplication functions of isboxer, or any other program that has other functions which are not input duplication. programs which allow for easy switching between clients i can fully support.3) i have three accounts, some have more. i do not oppose multiple accounts in general. there may be good reason to limit accounts to a certain number which i am not aware of. if that is the case i would support a reasonable number of active accounts, in my case that would be 3, for others it might be more. i'm sure if it comes to that discussion with the ccp devs that some reasonable middle ground can be found. after all, ccp needs to make money, and account subscriptions and plex bring them money.4) comparing eve to other in development or recently released space mmo's is disingenuous. both of your examples to my knowledge are more like first person shooters with simulation additions. eve is far more simulation at the core than either of your examples.but, without good verifiable reasons for a need to reduce players to 1 player = 1 account, i would fight for reasonable multiple account limits.5) developers need to have firm rules for dealing with breaches of the eula of their product. the restriction against input duplication i can support, but an outright ban on multiboxing would cost ccp revenue, as well as alienate segments of the player base. changes in the systems of the game may in the end be the way to go, but banning against input duplication should be handled with full diligence of ccp. there may be cases in which false positives are in fact happening, if so then the ways to determine positives would need to be looked at. but at this point i haven't found any hard evidence that ccp's input duplication detection is flawed.as long as ccp's ability to detect input duplication is working as intended, i support the banning of eula breaches in the use of input duplication. whether those bans be short term, or not, is up to ccp to decide. but repeat violators should be removed permanently."
"so i contacted ccp, and they said they didn't mind i was working for a game company. then i told them that i work at one of the studios that has a team that helps rsi with star citizen (i'm not involved with that project). so they said that *would* be a problem, which is totally understandable.apologies to everyone who spent time in this thread."
"sorry but already tried to do it in few hundred battleship fleet. you cannot alpha carrier so easily. tried to do the same with dreads - no tidi , it just don't work. as for structure repping - try ospreys , they can pump shield like non triaged carrier."
"jump fatigue is supposed to cripple the projection of large coalitions, but the logistics nightmare hurts the small guys more than anyone else. large coalitions have enough jf pilots, and hold enough stations to still get supplies anywhere they need through brute force. the small guys are the ones getting boned. how are they supposed to hold ground when they can't supply themselves? jf range should be increased to jump past blockades of hostile stations, so the little guys can have a chance at supplying and holding small patches of remote systems."
"final range of jump freighter will be reduced to 5 ly."
"and how does this not then benefit larger coalitions with more jump freighter pilots who can then resupply with less brute force?"
"because they can't cut you off and starve you out."
"any benefit to smaller entities is a greater benefit to larger ones, and with logistics, either with logi or supply chains, being exponential force factors, increasing jf range helps the bigger guys against the littler ones at an order of magnitude more."
"the bottom line for small entities = possible vs impossible to hold space.the bottom line for large entities = the amount of jf pilot put to work, no difference in end result.what you don't realize:large entities can blockade small ones by cutting off jump freighter supply routes, because they have lots of space. a jf range increase will allow small entities to supply themselves past these blockades. you can't move titans/moms/dreads/carriers via jump freighter anyway.projection of major power blocks has nothing to do with jfs moving your daily supplies, it has to do with titans and moms moving across the map."
"too bad. that's a big part of what wardecs are for, to serve as a mechanism for generating loss and thereby stimulating the economy. no, it's like paying a galactic level authority and it applying across the galaxy. who'd have thunk it?the only way wardecs are broken, or open to abuse is that they can be dodged for free without having to surrender. only if you don't shoot back.it is not the fault of the mechanic that you're too chicken to shoot back. that's your own fault."
"i am not against changes to the wardec mechanics as they are far from perfect. however, since this is a sandbox, the motivations of people are not always, and cannot always be known to you. how does the game know that a wardeccing corp is attacking your corp because they are \"fishing for kills\" or because one of your members mouthed off and a competitor hired them to wardec you? or because you mined out an asteroid from them and they hired some mercenaries to teach you a lesson. you are placing a personal judgement on the motivations for actions of other players that you cannot possibly know, and limiting this player freedom not only removes yet another tool from the sandbox which diminishes the richness of the game overall.people always say this when the come to the forums asking for increased safety and protection from player conflict. they don't want to end wardecs (or suicide ganking, or whatever) but they just want to stop it from happening to them by changing game mechanics. wardecs are a part of the game designed the foster player conflict that drives the economy and provides meaning in the game. you want to limit it to some sort of \"honourable contest\" between equal opponents. that really isn't what eve is.i have much sympathy for new players learning this complex game, but very little for a highsec pve corporation begging for increased safety so they can make isk in peace. you claim to be able to make 500m isk in a day, yet your corporation of many players couldn't find a billion or two for a week to hire one of the top mercenary groups to deal with the wardeccers? read the last wardec dev blog - the whole system is designed for you to hire mercenaries to protect yourself. yet you are so focused on making isk, and not lowering your precious isk/hour, that your corp decided the better course was to ride out the wardecs and predictably disintegrated. wardecs are there to force you to spend some of your effort on defense. you (or your former ceo) were too greedy to do so and thus condemned your corp to the graveyard next to all the other highsec corps that thought they could \"opt-out\" of pvp in a pvp-centric game. working as intended. next time, if your corp is big enough where drop-reforming isn't an option, spend some isk on defense by getting one of the top-tier mercenary operations on your side. if your corp is small, just drop and reform costing your opponent at least 50m isk for your 1m and a few minutes of your time. the wardec system does have problems and could be made more meaningful and fun for all involved, but forcing non-consensual pvp on another player corporation isn't one of them. that is in fact the very purpose of wardecs in the game. you are intended to defend your industrial operation everywhere in this game, and that includes highsec. attacking another corporation using the wardec mechanics is a use, not an abuse, of an intended game mechanic.how can you have meaningful conflict if one party can just throw up their hands at anytime and say \"game off\" and stop it? if you don't want to, or can't, defend a particular corporation you always have the option to leave it. the npc corps already provide the protection your seem to want, and there is no real penalty for you to temporarily leave a corporation if you are tired of their wars. as for risk and challenge, like many things in this game that is completely in the hands of other players. certainly the wardeccers exposes themselves to all the risk you assume, plus significantly more as you can invite any ally after the war has stared for free, something they cannot predict. risk vs. rewards is something that applies to those making the rewards. that is your corp, so it needs to assume the risk that someone will try to stop them and mitigate that by preparing for, or contracting out, its defense. making your income in the face of other players trying to stop you is really a major part of the game-play in eve."
"bni started in low sec, where wardecs are largely meaningless. if low sec and npc null were more viable for new players, you just might see more groups like bni become viable. bni didn't dock up when neutrals were in local; that just made them undock more.excessive wardecs, ganks, etc, are all just symptoms of a dead low sec and null sec. as a firm believer in solving the disease and not just treating the symptoms, the key to a more placid high sec is to actually have content in other security bands. thing is, you will never have content there so long as high sec maintains the monopoly on population, and it is unlikely to give up this monopoly until it loses the monopoly on accessible income. basically the only way to make hi sec safer is to give antagonists and pirates something to do outside of hi sec, which they really don't have at the moment. ironically, you can only save hi sec by buffing low and null to the point that they are worth the time and effort."
"drones have been missing loot table for a while, should've been fixed by now...ccp doesn't even have to make a unique \"drone flavored table.\" just copy and paste \"generic mission wreck\" to drone wrecks, voila, done. almost work-free. i doubt anyone will even care what they reprocess, so long as there's something to melt down should they choose to loot. even scrap metal of equivalent value as other race rats loot will do."
"sov system usage is what makes it game breaking. the big guys will prop up these things all over space of small entities, making their systems uninhabitable. it's the kind of fast easy ehp setup that only supers can grind down.restrict it to w space, and it might not be quite game breaking."
"i was sent an e-mail asking about multiboxing and such.further on that:if you can alt+tab then control your characters, that is fine ...... and maybe some very specific instances of mapping keys from one keyboard to another computer or client but they would be keys unique to each client and this would then cut down the available keys per client for each one you run; reducing possible commands, not having timed broadcasts from one key and having an inherent cost to benefit ratio."
"the way that eve has plateaued and considering the learing curve, i think the sort of people drawn to eve are the sort drawn to linux. i really feel it would be important to try get eve on ubuntu's software centre listing and make some song and dance about it."
"thank you for your reply. lorelei ierendi.in the interview in the link you provided you said something that caught my attention: highsec is underrepresented in the csm. that's terrible! users and players can create as much content in low and null sec as much as they want and is possible, but highsec is something ccp has a responsibility for. i don't yet have much insight in the npe, but i think new players should be able to get an understanding of the difference between order and anarchy (which is just another word for sandbox imo) and learn to decide how much they want to or can take before being confronted by piracy et al the first day on. and i don't think a few repetetive missions count.as much ccplease i (and many others) would like to do, i want to refrain from details, pleads and rants for now. this is my first csm election, and we'll see what, if anything, will change. i have a strong rpg and scifi background, and being a carebear is for me the only way to play the game. and btw, i only very recently discovered its exact meaning, and i think it's a dumb word, it should be a completely legit playstyle just like pirates or anyone living in wormholes. but i agree in being afk is not legit, and i agree with your 50:50 approach.one can't be without the other.ok, just one rant. creating a corporation is too easy and too cheap. there should be a minimum bar of what one corporation may expect from wardeccing another in terms of resilience and defense. the stronger mostly become stronger on cost of the weak, not other strong ones. that may be anti-darwinian, but it's a game after all.and as for wardec mechanics, the cost could be dependant on system security. you pay so much, and may attack the enemy corp members up to this or that system security. after all a wardec payment is a concord bribe, and i would like to see a 1.0 sec concord integrity withstand but the highest bribe (or even additionally connection skill), and a 0.5 sec concord crimewatch officer look the other way for cheap. that may result in corp members fleeing into higher sec and disrupting their businesses and having a chance to regroup and organize themselves ( to defend their pos etc.) rather than immediately disbanding the corp altogether.this as much as for ccp having to take responsibility for its highsec.good luck on your election!! and sorry for the \"neighborly\" greetings earlier, in the official candidate list your country of origin is listed as germany."
"my pleasure. i am not sure that i agree with that. ccp have a responsibility for defining the game mechanics et cetera... and the rest of it is just up to us players! i think that ccp needs to take a look at the game mechanics that are currently at work in high sec, compare them to the other secs, and see if there is enough difference there to make things worthwhile.this is eve. when we fly out of a designated \"rookie\" system we are at risk and exposed to the big bad world. i think that it would be bad for players in eve to simply be able to totally \"opt out\" of the sandbox. the sandbox also includes high sec. when you really look at it, the differences in sec are more or less just differences in the way players (can) shoot each other. as a proud member of a one man corporation, i disagree. like i said, what i would like is to see my corporation able to bring in as many allies and mercs as i want to help fight my war. but i don't need to post what i think, again!the form for registering for the csm did not allow me to enter a nationality that was different from my address."
"i pledge my support, good luck to you sir!"
"lol like your style +1"
"this game needs more rpers +1"
"lord vaari,thank you my dear lord for taking the time to bless us with your service. your commitment and dedication is unwavering. the kindness you show to your dear ship cats is an example to us all. i look forward to the good you can do for us all as our next csm.kathryn"
"the golden mountain always has my support!"
"think bam would make an incredible asset to the csm. his accomplishments are well known to the wider community and he has done so much without even being on the csm.. imagine what he can do while being on the csm.full endorsement from me."
"i've known bam for, gosh, it's got to be getting close to four years now, and he is, without doubt, my first-vote candidate and gets my enthusiastic endorsement.i first met him in game up in syndicate, when he was flying with moon warriors. we met, as often happens, by shooting each other. i was still in agony, and especially during the au tz, it was often hard to find fights, but we knew if bam stroker was online, he'd form up a moon warriors gang and bring a good fight. he was always clever and cute in local, win or lose, and eventually, he and rdnx invited me to be a guest on the evedownunder radio show.we had so much fun together on that episode that bam and rdnx invited me to come back any time, which i did, and continue to do so to this day. both of them, especially bam, encouraged me to get more involved with the au tz community at large, and over time, we became fast friends.when i left agony to start up my community service corporation, redemption road, bam (along with rdnx) was one of the first to step up and support the effort, spreading the word as only he can do. he was the first to join me in my crazy idea of putting a team in the neoii, tirelessly practiced throughout affirmative's atxii attempt, helps me organize and spread the word about our au tz public roams, continues to man the helm of the evedownunder radio show, is a key organizer of the evedownunder meetup, and somehow manages to attend and help organize meetups throughout australia.he even made it to evevegas in 2014, where i got to meet him in person and spent lots of time together.i mention all this because he's much more than \"just\" a community guy, he's a pilot of skill with a wide range of experiences in the game. many candidates say they \"understand\" lowsec, nullsec, highsec, wormhole space... many claim to represent and \"know\" all sides of the game. he actually does. he understands what it's like to be the little guy struggling to just survive the day without losing a ship. he feels the pain of multi-day fatigue timers. he knows what it is like to hunt in lowsec, grind sov space, run a corporation, lead an alliance, fly in the arena. he \"gets\" eve.but more than that, he has become one of my dearest friends.bam stroker will, without doubt, be as dedicated to the csm as he is to every thing he puts his mind to. he has proven time and again his love and commitment to the community at large, not just the australian time zone community. he's tireless, hard working, intelligent, loyal, honorable, selfless, and fair. he also has a wicked sense of humor, something it seems the csm could use at times he has a remarkable ability to see both sides of any debate, to put the needs of others in front of his own needs, to follow through on his word, and to always, always, remember it's about all of us, the community of eve.i have no doubt that bam will be an outstanding csm member, and he has my heartfelt and enthusiastic endorsement."
"gg, that's just... wow.sh*t even if i don't get elected now just reading that makes it worthwhile... <3eve down under - a community for players in the autz"
"you're adorable when you blush, bam"
"i can't say that i know you, but you have a great platform and i can't argue with all the love here.+1 from ustz. i'm looking forward to seeing what you can do."
"this post focuses on digging more into one of my program points, and summarize my thoughts or what i said about it in various medias.make some of the carrier paths that are advertised to bring new people in the game to become realistic, like bounty hunter.in the past, ccp used to communicate to new players about certain career paths that could be done in eve online, like industrialist, pirate, freedom fighter or bounty hunter. this communication has changed (i am not sure when) and it seems that these paths are no longer visible in the marketing efforts to communicate to new players. this is a good thing, as eve is a very open game and a single \"career\" does not make much sense. players are free to embrace different play styles, as well as different activities while building the skillset of their characters. furthermore, the bounty hunter path was really not supported properly in-game to be defined as a carreer in the same sense as industrialist, trader or pirate.ccp has thus addressed this point of my platform already by focusing their new landing pages to the game's features and the spaceships themselves, which is better. their action removes a lot of the grief i had about bounty hunting, as i was seeing it as an unfair way to lure new players in the game, only to disappoint them. i am still not too happy about the current bounty hunting rules and i wish one could really make a living out of it. i do not like the usage of the current bounty system as a glorified isk leaderboard. i appreciated the efforts made a while ago to improve it, even if it did not go far enough. but by removing this bounty hunter career as an advertisement to the game, ccp has pro-actively de-fanged most of my grief about this specific topic. i can live with the system as it is, where bounty hunting may be more of an opportunity to seize rather than a long hunt to do. i am sure some very dedicated players still can do it after a while, but i do not know if there is a real benefit to it at the moment. i would really like ccp to do another pass on bounty hunting, and i would support it whole-hearteadly, but as it is not used anymore to lure new players in, i can live with the current status-quo, as there are bigger issues to work on.this is an opportunity for me in the middle of explaining in more details the various points of my program to give credits to ccp for the turn-around they have shown in the past year. from the new releases schedules, to the choices made, i applaud the work done. this is what encouraged me to put myself on a run for csm and in the public eye, something i am usualy not fond of.version fran<U+FFFD>aise"
"this post focuses on digging more into one of my program points, and summarize my thoughts or what i said about it in various medias.request that all players link all their alts publicly, with a slight change in the eula this is the most controversial point of my program. the point causing prominent members of the public community to shake their head condescendingly at my run for csm x and sigh, the point that sets me apart from the accepted \"norm\", the black sheep, or the simpleton that just \"does not get it\".... everyone is entitled to their opinions. for me this point is the true test of the votes of this csm x to bring independent voices to bear.x like 10 years... eve is already ten years old, and all the doom sayers of \"eve is dying\" have been proven wrong so far. eve is leaving infancy behind, and entering teen years on a human age scale. many tantrums have been had, and the game continues to grow, and offers an unparalleled experience of social interactions mixed with a cut-throat environment where players build assets, and can loose them on simple mistakes, or a bad look from a powerful individual, or long lasting grudges. eve is not for the faint of heart, or the ones full of great ideals... it is gritty and unforgiving, but everyone can set their own goal and agenda and expect a reasonably fair field of play... but is the gaming field truly fair as the power of a player is multiplied exponentially by the number of unrelated accounts one has?this was very visible with the thankfully now banned input broadcasting, where fleets of bombers handled by one player could destroy a gang of numerous players with a single coordinated bomb run, or locust mining fleet could empty a site in mere minutes to the dismay of local residents with a more casual approach to their gaming hobby. they were not alts of the same accounts, but different accounts organized to operate at the same time. in that case, they gave away their anonymity to multiply exponentially the effect of one player on the game. the community as a whole started seeing that as an abuse during the last year, while it was accepted for many years before. but as it started being more visible, as more players saw it working for some and duplicated the trend, this created a snowball effect that could not be ignored anymore. gone is the very visible input broadcasting, because it became too obvious, but it also clearly showed that some players could afford many many accounts....... and there are still today many ways that are not as visible to influence the game with a lot of anonymous different accounts and only one player behind them. from corps infiltration by \"clean\" alts, to non-productive cloaky campers that block in-game activity for local residents, to trading manipulated by alts of the same player, the power of multiple anonymous accounts is very much around, but it is not visible.my goal with this point of my program is to cast a light on it, and continue the cleaning process for a fairer gaming field to all players that the input broadcasting ban started. multiple anonymous account is, simply put, a subtle form of pay-to-win.removing the anonymity does not mean preventing players from having multiple accounts, as i believe this is truly a staple of eve, but it will change the impact on the game that these extra alts can bring to the same player.all activities in eve are designed around risk versus rewards. anonymous alts is all rewards with no risks. i have received angry messages saying i am going to kill the spy game.... where is the difficulty in the spy game today? you are not working to turn another player, but you are adding a new account and having a real easy, no risk involved, run at a group of players in their corp that have no other way to protect themselves than not recruiting anymore...what is the difficulty and the risk of sending a cloaky alt for weeks around, totally anonymously so that the recipients can't even know who is behind it and retaliate in other ways? a cloaky alt does not produce anything for the game, and has a no-risk opportunity to jump those that ignore the cloaky camper at the first opportunity. why being afraid of retaliation against other productive alts? the tenants of this type of play are the worst and most hypocritical carebears of the game, wanting to wield significant influence with the multiple anonymous accounts, and wield an influence that has little risk involved. it is not about the number of accounts, it is about their anonymity* hence my proposition to change the eula accordingly.i also received multiple messages of various sort about the paradox of me running from an anonymous alt and having this item on my agenda. well it make sense for many different reasons:- first i want to run on ideas i believe will make the game fairer for all, and be judged on these ideas, and not from the corps i have flew with or the state of my killboard. with me you get what you read on these forums, baseline statements that helps identify the points i will defend if i am elected.- not showing my main also ensures that i will not suffer from backlash in-game about ideas that i understand are threatening some players' influence over the game. playing solo, my best defense is into this kind of secrecy. - running as an anonymous alt is also making a point about this particular aspect of my program. i have little reason to be the one linking my alts publicly, while anonymous alts remain a part of the game for all other players. if this change, i will be the first one to link all my alts to this account.*clarification: i am talking about the anonymity of alts, not the anonymity of players. only ccp should know the players' names behind the accounts, all alts from various accounts of the same player being linked.version fran<U+FFFD>aise"
"this post focuses on digging more into one of my program points, and summarize my thoughts or what i said about it in various medias.participate to the new upcoming sovereignty changes to give a chance to smaller groups to truly own something without having to rent it.sovereignty is this year the elephant in the room that everyone and their mother have talked about. this is the flag players plant on the new eden null-sec map for all to see. currently sov revolves around a mix of power projection strength , players's negotiated agreements or alliances, and of course identifying and protecting the most lucrative corners of null space to solidly control their income. much of the space under sov remains empty except for strategically placed systems serving as bases in the various regions.anyone that has been in an alliance knows the meaning of the word cta, where the leaders and fcs bangs up the drums to bring more bodies than the expected opposing fleet, their easily infiltrated alts keeping them updated on the current count in the opposing fleets, the location of those pilots that matter most (cyno, scouts, mostly all alts of highly ranked and trusted pilots to avoid treachery...).the regular joes gather, fleets get ready-ish and leave xish hours after being called, players wait for a while at a titan to be bridged to an undisclosed system, and most of the time nothing happens except for shooting at immobile structures, and doing it all over again with the next timer, and the next....if things heats up, escalation is usually pretty steep if the timer is important, in which case tidi kicks in, slowing every action to a snail pace, and if the spy reports indicates possible odds turns bad, contact is broken to avoid losses that would look real bad on the killboards.in short the current regular player experience around sovereignty sucks most of the time, while the experience of the leaders is full of constant adrenaline rushes... and the efforts involved to support all the infrastructures by the pilots making it happen behind the scenes, logistics and all, is pretty staggering..it must be said that when the fights happen and are not too lopsided, they recharge spirits of anyone involved, especially the winners, to accept more tediousness for weeks to come. gud winning fights is an incredible morale boost.fortunately, ccp has recognized the issue a while ago already and has been actively working on it, with the csm ix members input. there is no announcement on what is coming when, except for the already released first piece, jump fatigue, to control power projection. but it is unlikely that csm x will have much, if any, to contribute on what must currently be development well in progress and plans already set to fix the sovereignty issues. a lot of voices support activity based sovereignty, which i also strongly support. spreading players across the various systems makes for more interesting smaller fights all the time. what csm x will be most likely called to do is to cover the releases of the new sov system, more than influence it. still if there is any chance to influence anything that is to come in that area, my main focus would be to ensure that some kind of sov can be established by the smaller groups, even if this sov is more limited than what a group of players can achieve. a solo player claiming sov on a asteroid belt for example, or a small corporation claiming sov on one of the moons, or a planet's pi, or a larger group claiming sov on the system itself, and an alliance on a group of systems in a region and so forth... this would be where the combination of players interaction to defend a corner of space where each hold a sov adapted to their scope would create de-facto alliances, each layers benefiting from the activity of the lower layers. also, the experience around fleet fights to control sovereignty should be better spread across all players, to avoid seeing 95% of the fun parts of a fleet op handled by 5% of the pilots. i do not have any magical solution to this, but it is a problem worth discussing for the sake of the game. lastly, establishing sovereignty should not be tedious, but fun and active across multiple timezone, and triggering engagements scaled to the level of sov being challenged, with multiple point of contact grids rather than a large battle in a single place. these are just pie in the sky thoughts of course, and as i do not believe we are at the early stage of sov redesign, csm x will have to work with what has already been decided on those topics. on thing for sure, it is something big that will change the game, and this new csm will be right in the middle of it, liking the changes or not...version fran<U+FFFD>aise"
"this post focuses on digging more into one of my program points, and summarize my thoughts or what i said about it in various medias.develop the new player resources and first experiences in a more integrated way within the game.ccp has recently communicated on new efforts to improve the new player experience.this read is excellent, and the thing i like the most about it is that at last new players will start a spaceship themed game in a spaceship! also, being directly driven to an anomaly in the starting system is great too, ratting and mining as the first two things to do, then learning about the rest warping, docking, undocking... finding new stuff to do.. all that in a format that is not as linear and text heavy as the current tutorial.that looks really good! i just hope that no griefer can probe this starting anomaly or the player in it, and fleet invite and other tricks of that nature will be disabled until the players warps out of after having learned the basics, including not shooting in high sec at someone that is simply targeting you...there is something else that is dear to me that i would push if elected:a ship simulator within a spaceship game in short the ability to sample every ship from your station in your starter system, through a simulator that will take you in a instance only anomaly (nobody else can get in as after all you will not be in real space) for a mission specially designed for the ship's role. this simulator would give you access to the skills at level 5 and to your choice of any of the module to fit, and teach you the hard way when your fit is poor. the mission could be run multiple times until it is completed after you find by yourself the optimal way to fit the ship, and experience the consequences of a non-optimal fit, without losing anything yourself.the access to ships class could be granted by steps, unlocked by completion of related simulations as well as real skill trainings, without being too linear, and would cover all the ships including capitals, so the training sim could be visited anytime by all pilots as they evolve and get closer to actually be able to fly said ship. learning process in eve is a constant thing. learning the roles and how to fit ships is something that even expereinced players can benefit from, even more if they can be exposed without risk of losing stuff to the consequences of poor fit in a training simulator, before being blown up for good in space.not having to install a second client for that purpose, and having a tailored mission for the ship's role, would be neat.version fran<U+FFFD>aise"
"i will be on the town hall panel of the declaration of wars podcast on 3/1 at 21:00mark this thread for more details about their other panels for csm x"
"this year i'm starting to have a look at the running csm candidates in a bit more depth, and i've written a short review of your campaign, which can be found here."
"good luck in your campaign, sab."
"after some issues, the vote match profile is now up."
"sabriz, after a discussion with another player i've been thinking about wardecs and it's made me want to revisit something we discussed earlier. within this post and in your wardecs recording, you state that wardec evasion (via disbanding and reforming a corp) was deemed an exploit. do you know where this was stated? at first when i've heard this said, i just accepted it and didn't really think about it, but since then i've been thinking and can't actually remember anything official or even coming from an official that confirmed it was an exploit. i've searched around and can't find it anywhere either, and i know that it wasn't an exploit in 2007, 2009 or 2011, so i'm not sure when or where this was said."
"i didn't play at the time and have only anecdotal evidence for it. but i've heard it from quite a number of people. also thanks for your harsh but (from your position) fair comments on your blog."
"no problem.any idea where people you heard it from heard it? it's one of those things i've heard a few times too and just assumed to be true, but now that i'm trying to source it, can't seem to find it anywhere. in fact i've found a couple of gms stating the exact opposite, and now am beginning to wonder if it's just one of those things someone said once that just took hold."
"james 315, psychotic monk and a few others but those are the two i can name. whilst the highsec predator community are often dishonest to outsiders, we aren't dishonest to each other (and monk in particular took that as an absolute principle)."
"it's true, monk will stab you in the back if he gets the chance, but he won't lie to you."
"that may be the case, but that doesn't mean someone else didn't come up with it and it spread though them. all evidence i can find points to it having never been an exploit at any point."
"i vote for corebloodbrothers this year! ^^"
"core,did you do an interview with cap stable?"
"sadly no i was available every day last week, atm i am on eve free holiday, which i promise my wife once a year hehe. they tried, but we couldnt find a matchign slot. maybe next week, but there is plenty of info in my eve candacy post , my twitter @corebloodbro or my corebloodbrothers facebook site. interviews and life performance also on forums. i just made a little article on my facebook site about sov, feel to read and reply to itvoting starts tommorow, goodluck too all"
"just wanted to hear your sultry tones once more is all"
"who would be the right candidate? i mean there are quite a few to chose from, all with very good arguments and near picture perfect interviews. they all know the games mechanics by heart - so a decision based on knowledge is out. if i were allowed to ask only one single question, it would be: \"what will you do for me?\".i know core for like 4 weeks, being in his alliance and fleets for just three weeks. he's instantly your bro: accessible, forgiving, warm and unbelievably patient. there's the fleet, 145 guys waiting for the go - and here you are as a total noob, excited and all. he'll take the time to go over your ships fittings, making suggestions and even giving out his own stuff, just to make sure that the noob will have a great time and will come back. and he does it casually and with style. never condescending, always funny, respectful and relaxed. even chatting you up after fleet: did you have any problems keeping up? questions? will you come back?this guy will make damn sure that you're gonna love (t)his game as much as he does. and i guess that's pretty much all i need to know: he loves eve. and since eve really is us, the players... he'll never let anything happen to this game that would threaten his or our love for it. he won't let us down. +1, and some much deserved respect for an awesome guy."
"posting on my main because i'm voting for you again and proud to say so."
"hi brood! thanks for your post here and on reddit. i read both. you're incorrect in a few areas, however, which i feel i should correct, just a little bit. you weren't only kicked for your language as described above. you were kicked because of your repeated and persistent use of racial, homophobic and anti-semitic slurs. sure i lost my temper - i'd personally warned you a number of times about it. i don't like people inflicting their prejudices on the rest of us. good luck out there mate,"
"thanks for the reply, mynxee. that such a distinguished former csm member would say so make me very happy, and i hope i can be worthy of your kind words. brave lives in null. we moved here, and we're planning on staying for a bit - at least until we move into thera when the drifters take over the universe. what can i bring to that discussion? the point of view of a huge alliance full of new players who are trying to get to grips with the mechanics of null and the stagnant nature of the place - something we feel deeply, even in the most content rich region in 0.0 space. i don't want sov to be the domain of a handful of mega rich and supremely powerful players, i want it to be vibrant, and alive, and i want to hear the pitter-patter of tiny newbie spaceships rattling around the joint. i want to see malcanis' law used to the betterment of the new player experience - which i think is easily possible. the opportunities dev blog is exciting. i'm yet to play through them all, but they look very promising. however, one of the biggest criticisms of the tutorials were that they trained a new player for a life of solo pve, which is categorically unsuccessful in retaining new players, and utterly fails in introducing people to our awesome community. i don't see that this is much of an improvement in that regard."
"i think it could be. opportunities like \"enter a wormhole\", \"mine arkanor in nullsec\", and \"harvest gas in a wormhole\" encourage newbros to explore nullsec and w-space earlier on. further opportunities like \"fight another player in nullsec\" or \"fight another player in a wormhole\" will inevitably get the newbro blown up, which is often step 1 of the recruitment process.how many more newbros & new factions plant their flag in nullsec depends on how easy it is to steal an empty system in the new sov rules. even hero has quite a few empty systems i could imagine new alliances planting their flags in."
"this is a fairly common problem, and unfortunately isn't one that has any clear solution. personally, i've found a happy middle ground through the way my corporation is run. the members of my corporation are almost all heavily involved in npsi groups, either as fcs or devoted line members. as a corp, we don't maintain any blues - blues offer us nothing, and in return, decreases our number of potential targets. i've called members of my corporation as primary on multiple occasions, but we are all well aware of how npsi \"works\" and what the rules of engagement are even if you see a green star in local.npsi as a playstyle is still relatively new; there are still a lot of people who haven't heard of it, let alone actually flown in an npsi fleet. in the sov world, in contrast to the npsi world, blues do have purpose. they help you win wars, they are paying to use space, or maybe they're just alts of your friends. a member who views blues as a potential target depending on their daily disposition can be considered a liability to the entire alliance. when we talk about blue-on-blue occurrences, there are many shades to how involved or \"at fault\" a person can be. are you one of a hundred bombers killing a target during a hot drop? well, guns away, he was going to die anyway. were you the hunter killer who found your friend through unscrupulous means, and lit the cyno for a hundred bombers to come kill him? well.... then maybe your alliance has reason to be upset.when we're talking about ways to engage those who you are normally friendly with, both circumstances have to be considered. the most popular suggestion to combat this problem is the introduction of fleet standings, where the member of a fleet has the option to inherit the standings set by the fc. ignoring ~legacy code~ problems, this should have to have restrictions so that it couldn't be easily abused, such as switching from blue to red mere second before landing tackle on a shiny target. forcing a member to be docked before standings could be swapped is one practical fix that would encourage using it for the intended purpose. that being said - and as i alluded to above - even with the proper tag marking you as a valid target, the core of the problem is as simple as conflicting desires and loyalties.the groups that you are flying with under the guise of a \"proper\" corporation and alliance have goals, and desires, and their way to enjoy the game. the npsi fleets that you fly with on occasion have their desires and goal as well, although mostly short term goals in the pursuit of fun and content. as much as i'd love implement fleet standings as a way to broadcast intentions, no change in mechanic is going to prevent someone from judging you for participating with an organization outside of their own."
"the problem with this idea is that there are still structures and pocos in 1.0 systems which require wardecs to be destroyed and change hands. i'm all for channeling wardecs into more purposeful aggression, but blanket restrictions aren't going to make the mechanic more enjoyable for aggressor or defender."
"you had my vote as soon as i read about no off grid boosting on the \"align yourself with a candidate\" page; then stole my heart at pirate faction warfare."
"hello,my name is nsa bivas and eve has been a great interest of mine since 2004. although i have taken a few occasional breaks over the years, in these 10 years of gameplay, i<U+FFFD>ve tried everything you can do in eve from mining in the apocalypse battleship to inventions to running anomalies. however, my main focus has always been pvp and as a proud member of northern coalition, i believe i have the insight to make meaningful changes to your pvp experience. recently, most of my pvp experience has been in sovereignty 0.0 and wormhole space as a part of pvp orientated alliances; starting with ascendant frontier, against all authorities, triumvirate, verge of collapse and now at northern coalition. and whether i am solo in a stabber fleet issue, roaming with a small gang or jumping into a system with a supercarrier fleet, i am confronted with many of the same problems that pvpers face today.yet the isk i use for pvp does not come from nowhere. in my time in this game, i have funded my extensive ship losses through all manner of activities from production, invention and mining to running missions (level 4 in highsec, level 5 in lowsec, pirate missions in npc nullsec) and wormhole activities. i hope that my term in the csm will also allow me to make pve a more fulfilling and enjoyable pastime.my favorite aspect of this game is participating in both ccp and player organized tournaments, such as the alliance tournament. i believe my greatest accomplishment in eve was winning the atx with the verge of collapse team. the tournament brought me closer to my fellow eve players and i hope that i can bring the tenacity it instilled within me to the council of stellar management where i can bring positive change to your eve experience.the reason i haven<U+FFFD>t previously posted here is simply due to the fact that i was awaiting acceptance from ccp for my candidacy. feel free to get in touch using the methods detailed below.in game channel nsabivas4csmconvo me or mail me in gametwitch chat when i'm streamingtwitter @nsa_bivas"
"+1 mi amigo"
"+1 sir"
"+1 awesome guy"
"+1 :)"
"my suggested ballot will likely go up tomorrow at evenews24.com"
"just so you know, chance; i'll be voting for you. it's because of you that i'm flying around in wh space in a nemesis these days."
"endorsements starting to be announced. i'd like to say a big thanks to rhavas ("
"cool, i was set to evil be the green goblin (i think it is greedy, but who cares) for being a cfc pet, to which he then stated he never read any of my candidacy posts. i do love the internets ;)he may have been interested in this entry:"
"10/10 would vote. great capstable interview too!"
"thoric for csm x!!!"
"i wanted to reach out and thank gevlon goblin:as a newly anointed \"evil\" csm candidate, i would like to thank you for this honor. i was only hoping to make it into the \"slightly naughty\" list for this, my first attempt at candidacy. i wanted to let you know i did receive my official evil cat and moon laser today, and i'll be performing the sacred \"blofeld ritual\" and shaving my head for satan tonight. thank you again, it's an honor just to participate.-thoric frosthammer."
"i had flown with june for a number of years and know her to be good at what she does. i think she would be a great addition to the csm, she will have my vote for sure."
"alekseyev, i would love to join you for the null/sov changes discussion. domanark - csm10 candidatedomanark co-host clueless space nerds podcast"
"count me in for the town hall meeting...thanks for the efforts of doing this!"
"i would love to participate in either the town hall meeting or changing roles of the csm."
"i can make the 21:00 town hall slot."
"voting starts at 11:30 gmt on 25th of february.many employers do not know the people they interview for a job, that doesn't take away from their ability to do said job. the trouble is that csm to my eyes is more a case of large alliances planting someone from their group in the csm much like a flag. \"we have a representative, maybe they will steer us in the right direction, just watch how they play!\" then people complain about how ineffective the csm is at what they expect done."
"most of those elected to csm x will take the job seriously.a few will just sort of disappear.all the candidates will promise to work for the greater good of the whole game, this will in fact be true of all candidates who get elected.once elected, most of the work will be 'secret'what is released in the csm minutes will be old news by the time it is released.still, it is better to have the csm than not, so i always vote."
"hi lyonic, nice to see another tartan army guy running.some qs:how would you deal with these proposals being dismissed out of hand by devs if you were elected? do you see the csm mostly as an opportunity to pitch your ideas, or as an opportunity to converse with devs about their ideas? what do you think incursion isk goes into mostly & what troubles you about that?how do you reconcile seeking to amplify risk for level 4 mission runners by relocating these out of highsec with seeking to subdue risk for nullsec ratters by proposing some action against cloaky afk players?if i can already buy sp with isk via the character bazaar, why do i need to be able to buy sp with isk by another means?look forward to your replies.mixu"
"shadowandlight sent the csmx candidates a mail with some questions regarding multiboxing. below are the questions and my answers.my overall opinion: multiboxing is an asset to eve and should never be completely removed.my direct question to you the canidates is:- are you for or against input duplication in eve onlineagainst.- are you for or against the various tools listed above (isboxer, autohotkey, mutli button keyboards etc)for, provided they don't violate the tos/eula- should players be able to control multiple accounts in eve online, if so, should their be a limit?players should be allowed to control multiple accounts in that ways that are currently available to them. there should not be a limit on the number of accounts players can have. that's up to a player.- a ccp spokesperson recently stated that he would like to see eve being brought to 1 person = 1 pilot, i am assuming along the lines of games lik elite dangerous and star citizen. your thoughts?it would kill the game. eve wasn't built up or with a 1:1 pilot/player ratio. i never want to see it head in that direction.- if ccp does decide to limit mulitboxing in eve (which it appears they have started to) would game design changes make more sense vs. banning players or do you feel this is a correct path for them to currently follow.mechanic changes are the most effective way to influence player behaviour. bans only cut players off from the game or make them start over."
"campaign ad"
"back from a busy weekend of work.actually i have been blogging since what 1997ish of the top of my head, yes old school way of running my own hosted server etc. these days it's on tumbler"
"q and a from shadowand light about running multiple accounts.- are you for or against input duplication in eve online.against, been able to control many accounts at the same time is breaking the gameplay, the game and the eula. - are you for or against the various tools listed above (isboxer, autohotkey, mutli button keyboards etc)against mostly, the use of programs, addons, modification to control multiple accounts or to gain an advantage in terms of hitting buttons quicker is again bad for the game play and the game.however there are keyboards etc that you can program keys in etc. these can only be used on the client that you are active on, they are not broadcasting to multiple clients. as long you are not using it for macros they shouldn't be banned.- should players be able to control multiple accounts in eve online, if so, should their be a limit?yes a fair few of us do have multiple accounts running. this is fine as long as you are not doing things to control them all at once. should there be a limit, i think not. if some one wanted to run 40 accounts on the one pc by alt tabbing, good luck with the rsi.- a ccp spokesperson recently stated that he would like to see eve being brought to 1 person = 1 pilot, i am assuming along the lines of games lik elite dangerous and star citizen. your thoughts?it is one person one pilot at the moment. every account is owned by a person, account sharing is against the eula as one of the csm 9 members found out and got banned.- if ccp does decide to limit mulitboxing in eve (which it appears they have started to) would game design changes make more sense vs. banning players or do you feel this is a correct path for them to currently follow.owning multiple accounts should still be fine, running a large amount of them is the trouble. changes in the game and ui could help to make it harder for people to run a large amount of clients and reduce the amount of people doing it."
"what are you passionate about?"
"enjoy an endorsement from the executor of a relatively small and meaningless alliance in providence, your specific ideas on how sovereignty mechanics should be changed gets my vote."
"the core of this game isn't \"multi-boxing\" and \"alts\", the core of this game is \"multiplaying\". this game, as with all mmo's are designed around the concept of social gameplay and multiplayer interaction. multi-boxing and the use of alts is a player-designed answer to the multiplayer concept. i agree that ccp will never be able to eliminate mult-boxing, but your fundamental perception of this game is so terrible that it is becoming laughable. seriously, and before you say that i have a problem with you personally (i don't), let me clarify that my persistence isn't against you as a person, but rather with your understanding of this game and your personal views of eve. you really don't understand the game very well based on your opinion of the \"core\" of the game mechanics."
"well, looks like a problem here, standing for csm and it appears your platform is return mechanisms, that a significant number of players , consider to confer an unfair advantage?input duplication is now clearly defined as cheating, officially, unmistakeably.trying to find wiggle room, is not a laudable goal, and boasting about how you achieved this in other games, does not encourage trust in your ethics and in game morals.sorry that is not a position i can recommend or vote for."
"please tell me how a titan or other super pilot is suppose to play this game? just leave the titan floating around in space? eve clearly has game play mechanics designed around multiboxing. its is even in their advertising. power of two is promoted as multiboxing."
"as far as my fundamental perception of this game goes i am not sure what you are arguing about. there are a lot of mechanics that encourage multi-boxing. fleet warp, the fact that no player can do anything themselves, the skill queue, plex, etc. i agree that multi-playing is what all mmo's focus on, however, you cannot argue that this game advertises multi-boxing with both the plex system and power of two.i am glad i am amusing you but at the same time, opinion is something we all have and you have yet to sway mine. i find yours a little appalling myself but either way, you play eve and i play eve. your statements directly contradict your signature. also, my platform is not to return input duplication, please read my platform on either my website or this thread.exactly, this game promotes multi-boxing. check out my podcast! my blog!"
"the game allows multiboxing and \"power of two\" supports having alts. however, you said the \"core\" of this game is \"multiboxing\" and that is probably one of the most ridiculous things i've heard a player say in this game. it is a multiplayer game. i will agree with delt0r that a titan pilot, any titan pilot (or super pilot for that matter; or even cap pilot with trust issues) would multibox to move their ships around. i generally did, since i don't trust very many players in this game.again, let me clarify that i never used isboxer or any third party service to multibox to move my caps/supers. but again, these are player problems (since trust isn't a mechanic), and all of these things that i multibox are related to me not trusting other players, which would simply be multiplayer in general. how dense can you possibly be? your fundamental perception is that multiplayer mechanics are actually multiboxing mechanics. that is ridiculously blind. none of the mechanics you said encourage multiboxing, you only see it because you want to see it that way:1. fleet warp = multiplayer. (multiboxers use it, must be a multiboxing mechanic /s)2. players can't do anything themselves = wrong. (multiboxers use it, must be a multiboxing mechanic /s)3. skill queue = wrong. (multiboxers use it, must be a multiboxing mechanic /s)4. plex = wrong. (multiboxers use it, must be a multiboxing mechanic /s)(if you think multiply character training = multiboxing... lol wrong)i agree with power of two supporting alts, but that isn't exclusive to multiboxing. your arguments are all fringe at best, and you are certainly right about opinions. the funny thing is very few people find mine to be appalling and i take solace in the knowledge that you have been well removed as a wormhole candidate in this election."
">>> leaves discussion, as one is unable to reason or discuss with one who believes their opinion is the whole sum of reality, no matter how absurd."
"i agree that multiple character training is definitely not multi-boxer friendly, more along the lines of alt friendly. i guess i should really rephrase the whole core mechanic thing into more of a multi-boxing friendly or enabling game mechanic. does that definition suit you better? either way, this game has a lot of mechanics that enable and encourage multi-boxing. yes, these mechanics can be used by single players and thats fine, but they are also used and are very useful to multi-boxers.i would be happy to talk about my veiws on wh's and the npe, everyone just seems to enjoy discussing multi-boxing more. i think the npe should introduce both wh space and fw space. what about you?perception is everything and it defines reality to many people, no matter how limited their perception might be. i am fine reasoning and discussing, i have yet to hear anything to change my reasoning. thus the nature of discussion is to attempt to point out or defend your reasoning to others. we are however, entitled to our own opinions no matter how un-popular they might be. if you are not willing to discuss and attempt to alter my reasoning while i attempt to do the same in return then i bid you farewell. check out my podcast! my blog!"
"you mean you have no argument to make. if you have a position other than \"you are all wrong\" please share it."
"your ad."
"why thank you very much. quite well done and touches on the main points."
"i tried to make it unique and what you stand for. i hope you like it and it is yours to do with as you please. thanks for running and good luck. i put it on twitter."
"csm is not a democracy, only winners are the ones who don't vote. of course, massive amounts of isk will change that."
"i will start sending out conformations tomorrow for those who have said they can attend."
"first thing in a long time that does not collide with me working. would be glad to attend!"
"that makes absolutely no sense since there are plenty of other ways of cutting off jump freighters that have nothing to do with range."
"no. even a small 1 or 2 ly increase in radius can open up dozens of new routes in some cases, creating dozens of additional stations over multiple regions that will have to be held/camped to cut off logistics, erasing certain bottlenecks."
"so then why not just remove their jump range entirely and just let them teleport to whatever system they want, because that is mroe or less what you want, risk-free logistics.the only little guys who should be trying to settle far out are ones who see unused space by big entities and offer an alliance/defense in exchange for settlement rights, any other small entity is better off sieging and attacking off lowsec adjacent systems, as logistics and staging is infinitely easier."
"in other words, you're saying small entities should either stay out of sov null or rent - what you described - low level regional defense in exchange for offsetting partial/full rent, is exactly the same as the current renter system ccp is trying to move away from."
"actually, what ccp needs to do is repair the nullsec industrial complex to the point where you don't have to make jf runs every week for basic supplies.eve is like an addiction; you can't quit it until it quits you. also, iderno"
"yeah, thanks for ignoring half my post trying to act like your pulling a smart oneyes, if you want to live in the middle of an entity that is vastly larger than you, you shoudl be subservient, which is why the alternative i originally mentioned exists, and thats pushing for your own territory starting close to lowsec, so your supplies and retreat/reinforce lines are short and easily based in lowsec stations until you have enough presence and foothold to move completely into null.this way larger more stabilized empires are pushed farther into null becoming more dependent on themselves for supplies, rather than jita, while the little guys eating at their empire grow larger and are in turn pushed farther out to own space by the new little guys harassing them in low and entry-null"
"i'm all for that. but that's clearly not the case currently. everything from lack of basic minerals (null is always out of trit/pye/mexllon, distribution of these things in belts are far off for production of anything) to moon goo distribution (you'll always have to haul from highsec for missing t2 ship material unless you're a huge entity owning half of nullsec) necessitates making jf runs to highsec.until ccp actually does what you said, they shouldn't just pull the plug on small entities and drive them back to highsec."
"do we even play the same eve? are you seeing any small entity pushing into null starting close to lowsec these days? you must be seeing something the rest of us can't. all we see are the big guys collecting rent from -1.0 renterland in deep null that will never change hands, and use the isk to steamroll any small entity back into lowsec. what incentive is there for small entities to try to take worthless high traffic -0.1 space, knowing they'll just get steamrolled back before they can reach anywhere worthwhile?"
"false. it's supposed to cripple projection for everyone."
"do i see any? no. why? because none even want to try. most people build up a good 100-150 man alliance theyd need to start pushing, and decide theyd rather stay and sit on their lowsec empire and not get risky.as far as \"have any\" yeah, there are several alliances with only 1 or 2 systems that have held sov, mostly because they dotn go after \"crown jewel\" or main trade-pipe systems that are still necessary lifelines of big blocs (in other words, they avoid intentionally drawing all out war with a big entity)and besides, the entire point of sov going forward is to make it easier for little groups to pick away at the big ones, and if anything ccp will be nerfing jf range as they stated when they nerfed it originally, that it was a placeholder so nullsec groups didnt collapse overnight logistically (though to be honest, woulda been a better shakeup if they had just gone ahead with the planned nerf instead of post-poning it)"
"hate to break it to you, but your 100 man fleet will get rolled by supers, funded not by moon goo these days, but by deep null renter space whose sov will never be challenged.renters kill rats for isk -> pay rent -> coalitions use the isk to roll the small guys. powerblocks will never have trouble with logistics so long as they have isk printing machine that is deep null renterland. their renters need minimal hauling because all they do is rat. the small guys that actually want to take sov are the ones that need logistics to replace ship losses."
"than rather than asking for a band aid, champion an actual solution to the problem that doesn't screw over the rest of the game in the process. see past the end of your own nose and take a look at the larger picture.eve is like an addiction; you can't quit it until it quits you. also, iderno"
"no, that's asking for not pulling the plug on the small guys and driving them back to highsec before your \"solution\" is implemented soon^tmjf is the lifeline for these small guys. until this changes, their lifeline should not be cut, to the benefit of large powerblocks."
"sabre906 wrote:hate to break it to you, but your 100 man fleet will get rolled by supers, funded not by moon goo these days, but by deep null renter space whose sov will never be challenged.renters kill rats for isk -> pay rent -> coalitions use the isk to roll the small guys. powerblocks will never have trouble with logistics so long as they have isk printing machine that is deep null renterland. their renters need minimal hauling because all they do is rat. the small guys that actually want to take sov are the ones that need logistics to replace ship losses.which is a totally seperate problem than jump freighters. i'll point out something you seem to have missed the two times it was mentioned: ccp wants to reduce jf jump ranges to 5ly like every other capital ship. with that in mind, what do you honestly think of the chances they're going to do the opposite and implement your idea?"
"once sov null is one single color, perhaps?"
"a few ideas that might give both sides of the wardec issue some partial satisfaction.1. concord, as a law enforcing navy, falls very short on getting those with security standings that are low. the same for different major faction navies. if i can easily out-fly the ammatar navy while it declares i'm a dead criminal in derelik in a procurer of all things, there's something a little slow on enforcement boats in general. kos doesn't seem to mean much nor is it much of a concern overall in highsec. perhaps upping their reaction speeds and they enforce those laws on criminals could give the highsec smaller corps that moment of breathing room to do more than either get ganked or spin ships. that breath can save a ship, save a pod, and possibly save a new player from ragequitting, leaving all of us with fewer new players to fly with and against. we're all losing on this one. enforce the law, concord, or get out of the law enforcement business. inept is worse than corrupt, as least the corrupt can be bought off.2. as a relative r00kie, i would like to move and spend more time in low, and eventually null. however, that would mean signing my clone's soul over to an already established corp. and it's alliance. for those of us still in that first year, them's the options to get out of highsec and out of the poisonous teachings of a few carebears that set newbies up for later repeat failures when out on their own. there's simply not a lot of successful opportunities in low and null for a smaller corp of people playing for under 2 years to set up a stake to defend. so low and null stay stagnant, the constant wars there bring pirates up to high for easier targets. we're both losing by winning on this. breaking up some of that stagnation, well that would be an overall win for all.3. this character tends to spend more time with industry than pvp. i don't neglect those skills, for the continuation of my ship's lives no matter if i'm in a mining barge, hauler, or more combat orientated ship. i came into eve knowing others will shoot at me, at the most inopportune times. i did do some research before downloading the client and going for the trial period. expecting highsec to be completely safe defeats one of the reasons i joined. however, an expansion on what the eula counts as 'griefing' would assist on complaint tickets, along with giving a more honest idea of what a new player is signing up for when they undock. right now there's not much in the way of a serious explanation other than \"it's eve, you get ganked, deal with it'. for those coming over from less... sudden destruction of stuff/more hand holding mmo's, that will keep many of them from resubbing after their initial time purchase is made for an active account. at least let the fresh frozen meat know with a smidge more detail what they just signed into when it comes to the daily insanity of eve? forewarned is forearmed in many cases. this is one of them.just a couple of my wisdom pennies, use mileage may vary.>jeven"
"actually, concord is not there to protect your ships as you may think. they are there to impose a cost on the attacker and act as a deterrent for acts of aggression in highsec. check out section 5.2-5.3 of the new pilot faq for more info (and actually the rest of the document if you are a newer player). highsec is not suppose to be safesec, although the combination of the faction police and concord make it very safe if you take a few small measures to protect your ships. the real problem is that if you try to give extra \"safety\" to new players by increasing npc protections, established players will hide behind that safety to make isk out-competing the new players. if you want more safety, it has to be much less lucrative so veterans don't abuse it. i agree and let's hope ccp keeps this in mind when they revamp the sov mechanics. still, it will always be hard for a solo and small group to compete with the numbers of the large corps. you really should consider joining such a corp as the mechanics favour the safety in numbers - don't look at it as \"selling your soul\" but rather a learning experience for later when you want to start your own corp. you can leave any time and if you find the right fit for you, you can gain access to much game content with no or little downside. this is quite insightful. a lot of the tears and complaining come from incorrect expectations about the game. the recent new pilot faq i linked above goes someway to spelling this out, but the tutorials do a poor job of educating new players on what type of game this is, and has a habit of sending them off on a pve career of mining or missioning where they are nothing but clueless prey items for the predators. worse, highsec is so safe now that a player can go months or years before someone wardecs them or suicide ganks them, so it is slightly understandable that they complain that the game is \"broken\" or that ganker or wardeccer is \"griefing them\" when they eventually lose a ship because it is so outside their normal gameplay. highsec needs to be made less lucrative and opportunities outside highsec made more clear to newer players to encourage them to leave. also, the npe should involved multiple ship losses to other players (of inconsequential ships) so players avoid the trap of becoming risk-averse and becoming attached to their ships. it also should be made absolutely clear from the beginning that destroying ships, in any security space, is part of the game and when people do it they are not insulting, hating on, griefing, or otherwise breaking the rules. and as an extension of this, that you are not entitled to run a pve corp in isolation from the risk that someone else in the sandbox might try to stop you."
"wrong,yes, the defending party can dodge the wardec by simply sitting in the station and effectively deny you fights. that results in people being unable to play the game for which they pay, which effectively will ruin corporations. so far, interdiction and such is good and that, but let's be realistic.a majority of the wardeccing groups in high-sec deliberately target as many small groups as possible to try and get free kills from them. they target players who aren't big enough to stand up against them, and the second a fleet is formed up the aggressor docks up with no risk as result. when there's a lot of allies in a wardec, they simply stop paying it and a few days later it is gone.*camera switch to the defender*. now look at the defenders. their options are trying to find people to fight you, which often isn't worth it from a defensive point of view, or to sit in a station not being able to play. that's all they can do, meaning your silly wardec effectively stops their corporation for 50 million from being able to play the game. that's an awfully low cost for such a high impact. let's assume that there's a corporation that's five members big. they all are active players but not yet invested in pvp due to their situation. you spend 50 million isk to extend a wardec for seven days. defenders are unable to deal with you and forcibly decide to stay in station/offline for the seven days. now what would that effectively cost the players?5 players x 7 days = 35 days between the group.if we assume one plex is 780 mil, then techinally that wardec of yours costs them 850 million isk in \"wasted\" gametime.that's a little steep for such a cheap method of wardeccing with no way to end it from the defending side.you are the one who wants to wardec people but the second they can fight back you back out.the attitude you display is exactly the problem!"
"do you even play this game? dec dodging does not mean \"dock up all week\", it means drop corp and reform, thus dissolving the wardec. and all for the price of creating a corp. (which is nearly nothing)don't even bother stepping into the discussion if you don't know what you're talking about.when did i ever say that? oh wait, typical carebear strawman. the attitude... that you just made up."
"yes,they could disband their hard work on building something unique, just because some little splerglord with only 50 million isk can have his e-peen stroked because he picked on weak groups trying to make this game fun. you want a free pass to mess with people who honestly can't fight back against most of the highsec wardec groups, simply because they do not have the manpower.you prey on that, instead of taking on a meaningful entity. you aim for the weak people so that you get free kills with little to no risk in return. that by definition is the problem you pretend to fight against. and the whole spirit of this topic is to allow a more comprehensive system to be in place which allows a defending party to end a wardec as well, rather than putting this immense power into the aggressor's hands.if you would be a highsec wardeccer, go after marmite and fight them. they will have the numbers to deal with you.but don't be a little splerglord hitting the small people, while yelling \"itz peeveepee, u need defend urselfz\", knowing they can't."
"what hard work? highsec corps are little more than a chat channel and a corp hangar. there is no \"hard work\", unless it took you waaaaay longer than normal to pick a logo. there's that strawman again. do you actually plan to argue, or just attack things i haven't said?no, the whole spirit of this topic is \"waah, i want more safety! i shouldn't have to bother defending myself, the npcs should do it for me!\"the defender has far, far more power in this than the aggressor does. there is zero justification to add more, and plenty of justification to take some of it away.but hell, you wouldn't know that. you don't even know what dec dodging actually is, you just went off half cocked on a rant about something you didn't even understand."
"yes.it is hard work if you want to build something lasting with a lot of member retention. it takes a lot of time and effort that people like you ignore blissfully.it has been you who ignores honest problems that people who like a different playstyle bring up, because it doesn't fit in your need to grief people.player represents a group of high-sec players who enjoy the pve aspects.player poses the following problem:- how are we to fight a war that we virtually can not end unless the other group decides to stop paying?then player asks to set in motion a change that will allow people to continue wardecs, but allow players who are on the recieving end to have a potential method to end the war through participation. essentially, the principle of a wardec being continued one-sidedly without a way to counteract that bothers player, and that's what he hopes to adjust.summarizing:- wars are not able to be countered on a fundamental level.- wars are limited in \"risk\" to the initiator. after all, they decide to continue it or not.- wars should need a component that gives the defending party a more impactful method of dealing with them."
"hard work? something unique? are you sure you're talking about highsec corps here? kindly inform us how \"highsec mining corp #81540283\" and \"highsec mission runners local #10058233\" are anywhere near unique. when one highsec corp folds due to wardec, ten more take its place doing the identical task.in your previous paragraph you said that they were building someting unique. while i disagree with this, if it were by some large miracle actually something unique, then it wouldn't be meaningless, and therefore a valid target according to your logic. take some initiave and make yourself a risky target. get ten people in t1 frigates and swarm those looking for easy kills, and those people will avoid you in the future.the only reason you can't is you are suffering under this delusion that you can't. 10-15 t1 frigates are enough to give the hardiest linked t3 heartburn. sure you'll lose a few, but then again that's the real issue, you don't want to lose anything. doesn't matter if you lose the war, you'll get far, far more respect simply because you stood up and fought. if the wardecers are half as risk averse as you think they are, then even this little bit of risk will be more than they want, and they'll leave you alone.you say there's nothing to stop them from extending the war for as long as they want to play, i say you're wrong. stop being a whiney little carebear with an exagerated sense of entitlement, grow a pair, and fight back. don't whine that you can't. you have the same ability to slap together a fleet of t1 frigs as everyone else. your refusal to do so is the real problem, not the wardec system."
"pretty sure they weren't meant to have a loot table. you get a bounty in exchange for hauling around drone poo."
"pretty sure all rats weren't meant to have a loot table. you get a bounty in exchange for hauling around loot.oh wait, you were being sarcastic."
"considering that this post was 2-3 years ago and dust is here, legion is coming, maybe ... just maybe dust can eve can link in a more meaningful way?imagine walking out of your captain's quarters and there are loyal dust troops rushing about, finding a ship to get to another planet ... and they see you, \"what can you fly?! how fast can you get there?!\" \"erm ... umm ... a suicide bomber, could fit like 15 of you guys, with your equipment in there.\" ... and so it could go."
"jen, i think we disagree on things.. perhaps even maybe a large number of things. but i think you have spirit, and i like your communication style and brain. i hope you carry this attitude into csm.you will receive my vote. good luck to you with the election."
"steve has my vote, by far.one of the best candidates i've seen, and i feel that fuzzysteve is one of the best possible candidates.+1, and +5000 if i could."
"the following is an excerpt of my endorsements for csmx:the rest of the article/list is found here. best of luck, steve!"
"i was sort of reluctant for mining to be reworked by ccp especially given how many parts of the game have ended up after they have been 'iterated' on. too many careers have been **** on from a great height to be listed here. even so i read your concept ideas for how mining could be reworked and i quite like your ideas. as a percentage how likely do you think it will that your ideas for reworking mining will be implemented i think we voted for you last year and it seems likely we will vote for you again this year. we have one or two other candidates in mind but you are probably the front runner. \" they're gonna feel pretty stupid when they find out. \" rick. \" find out what ? \" abraham. \" they're screwing with the wrong people. \" rick. season four. ' the walking dead. ' ."
"pfft"
"i'm not fully aware of eve politics nor the people involved in it, but i must say that the reaction from csm members to this thread is something of note."
"all you need to know is xenuria runs every year, this year is actually tame somewhat for a xenuria platform.if i recall in previous years the big topics was the lack of crossdressing for toons and a \"gender gradient\" for every possible nonbinary gender in character creation, because apparently eve couldnt be complete without shemales and such silly things. (like seriously, future world where people can eb put into clone bodies 40 times a day from pewpew, and someone thinks there would still be transexuals, rather than people just opting to swap their body?)either way, long story short, lightly trolling xenuria with cold hard logic-based questions is a tradition, because the holes he digs are both deep and hilariously awkward*edit* also, was kinda sad the thread petered out, was having fun those couple weeks it was always up on the first page"
"i am glad that now you can finally admit to trolling my thread."
"well, pointing out faults with the intention of gaining a reaction out of the target is the essence of trolling, and pointing out the basic flaws and other such silly things in your posts at least gets you to participate in your own csm thread, because lord above knows you sure dont post to answer legitimate campaign concerns."
"we're improving on your candidacy, you should be thankful.and seriously, if you were ever anything but a joke candidate, you would a) have legitimate discussions pertaining to your candidacy in this thread, as well as opponents, trolls and people disagreering with your causes or your person and b) engage with opponents to defend and promote your ideas and candidacy.this isn't that candidacy thread.rather, it's like a public comedy, except the one performing isn't a comedian by profession, he's just just laughable. which is why it's rather enjoyable to participate in the discussion of your candidacy, it's hilarious.@ van beyus: xenuria runs every year, and the reaction from the csm, when it's not one big \"meh.\" is \"oh, jolly good, let's poke him with a stick and see if something hilariously outrageous statement / yt video / incorrect claim as to the actions of opponents / misunderstanding of reality / and so much more comes out\" - it's the real opponent candidates they're concerned about, not the joke candidates."
"my pleasure.just because it is difficult, however, does not mean that it is not worth trying!"
"ups and downs are part of mercs work.as tora is proberbly the only csm candidate i have had the chance to speak and fly with over the years on ts he will be 1 of my votes.i would actually vote for danalee buts shes not in it"
"thanks! and for all of you who dont know who to vote for, see the list above here."
"hey tora we can talk later on ts but i'd like to throw a couple of ideas at you and the rest here for your csm campaign:1) suspect timer when going suspect you can not dock until your cool down timer hits 14 minutes (the same as an aggro timer). this would concern all players that like use nuet logi in hs, loot thefts, suspect baiters and when kill rights are activated. so if you go suspect you have 1 minute to evade players or tank them to be able to dock up. if already suspect and your timer is below 14 minutes you can dock at anytime.2) implants i think we should be able to get implants from players corpse's that people pod. if you grab the corpse and take it to a station you should have a small percentage of there implants (if any) drop like loot does from destoryed ships.these are just a couple of idea's and they are just my ideas. p.s also posted in c&p"
"let's do that fybs. the implant suggestion was already discussed somewhere in the post.and i am on the cfc list."
"thanks for all the support mails, chats, etc i am getting."
"after reading the post and listening to tora's interview twice, i am convinced that he understands what eve is about and how it can be improved. good luck!"
"the following is an excerpt of my endorsements for csmx:the rest of the article/list is found here. best of luck, corbexx!#1"
"best of luck in the election corbexx.+1 from each of my accounts!"
"you have until march 10th to vote for csm x.the csm is a focus group that needs various strongly opinionated members with a good knowledge of the game and widely different points of views to be most useful to ccp. you also need csm members that are active, dedicated and show it in the way they have campaigned and the work they put out. it is now up to you to select which of us will be part of csm x. ccp teams are the only ones making the final choices about the game. the most diverse feedback they can get from the csm for future release, the best their choice will be educated by the various play styles in use, and the sand box will continue to offer play styles for a wide variety of players, sharing the same virtual universe, but with sometime opposing priorities.the stv voting system ensures a reasonable degree of representation as long as you fill your voting ballot fully with 14 names. filling it partially is wasting your capacity to fill the csm with a diverse mix of members.i have run my campaign to establish a clear base line about where i come from, with some fairly radical concepts that i explained. i believe this type of election should not be run with vanilla or populist concepts, and for that i will not be on the voting recommendations of most of the \"popular\" crowd. i only rely on you, voters with an independent mind and a wish to bring different voices to bear.if i am elected i plan to model my activity toward my constituents in a way that will be similar to what sugar kyle and corbexx have established during their tenure on csm ix. i want to thank those that have added me to their ballot recommendations:- gevlon goblin, from the greedy goblin blog.- rixx javixx, from dramaganda blogi also want now to endorse other candidates that i like, and will put on my own ballot. - i am not going to endorse anyone that has previously been on the csm, for the reasons you can read here, regardless of the quality of their previous service to the cause. - as i wish to represent the independent players, i am not going to endorse candidates that are too obviously in position of leadership or official or surrogate representatives of already established large groups.- i will not endorse candidates that were not able to generate at least 1000 views on their campaign thread. being on the csm requires efforts, and this is a bad start (i will make only one exception to this rule with harek)- from then i will endorse other candidates which i believe can bring something fresh to the csm.so here are the 13 other candidates that, with my name, you should consider for your ballot, to lessen the influence of the power blocks (i am simply using alphabetical order, their ranking in your ballot is up to you). arieteangrod losshelinashterothichance ravinnecitriocinierika mizunejayne fillonjune tingharekmigui x'hyrrnlorelei ierendiradu lupescusabriz adoudelplease vote, and vote fully!"
"why not run on your main?"
"i have discussed the reasons there..tl;dr- first i want to run on ideas i believe will make the game fairer for all, and be judged on these ideas, and not from the corps i have flew with or the state of my killboard. with me you get what you read on these forums, baseline statements that helps identify the points i will defend if i am elected.- not showing my main also ensures that i will not suffer from backlash in-game about ideas that i understand are threatening some players' influence over the game. playing solo, my best defense is into this kind of secrecy. - running as an anonymous alt is also making a point about this particular aspect of my program. i have little reason to be the one linking my alts publicly, while anonymous alts remain a part of the game for all other players. if this change, i will be the first one to link all my alts to this account."
"i have been quizzed by shadowandlight at dual-boxing about the current discussion of the recent ban of input duplication.here is my responsei am against keys duplication tools, i.e. any way where the same command can be propagated to multiple clients at the same time.i am in favor of multiple accounts per player, and multiboxing without key duplication.as you may have read i'd like all the alts of a player to be public, this is an important point of my campaign, and this is to better understand the field, as right now it is very hard to tell.i am not in favor of a limit as such in the number of alts, but i do acknowledge that too many alt for the same player can have a too profound impact on the game we all share, and may be there needs to be a limit.i think that brinign the alts in the spotlight for each player will naturally control this field...i believe one pilot per player would kill the solo play style that i represent, i play with a handful of accounts myself, and started dabbling in key duplication before it got banned. i am glad it did get banned as i was going there reluctantly to keep up with the crowd that was visibly more and more using duplications..i favor banning players caught in using something that i see as a cheat, but i also believe ccp game design should incorporate the out of game tools to limit their effectiveness. for exemple, i am against opaque backgrounds, and in favor of more sounds design to alert players (may be even when a new sig appear, of on some d-scan results...), in short i favor integrating in-game things that players with the right skill set can do out of game so as to not generate unfairness amongst the players."
"hello there. although you may not be a blogger or podcaster or some other kind of attention-seeker, you have my attention with your controversial though seemingly well thought out ideas. however to secure my vote you will need to work harder. you clearly have some passion about the game and a vision for it, but will you pledge to start some kind of blog / podcast / etc to provide regular updates to those who elected you? i agree with you wholeheartedly about tools/mechanics that aid small groups and allow them to make an impact, and how they are invariably nerfed very hard every time a power-bloc heavy csm wades in. how are you going to convince the ccp devs that small groups are important in eve? something you should consider adding / thinking about to regarding your proposed eula change: by restricting alts chribba style, it solves one of the biggest problems in eve: someone spending their \"off-time\" in incursions, renter minin/ratting, or in freighter ganking on an alt to fund their \"main\" activities, without risking repercussions from any of those groups, which is why i like it. it also encourages the rpg aspect of the mmorpg. however it also makes it easier for someone to discover the alts of a famous or infamous player and harrass them to stop playing the game. how will you deal with this argument which i think will be presented to you? once players \"can't hide\" behind an army of alts, the war-dec mechanic suddenly becomes closer to one of its initial goals, a system for one group of players to settle disputes with another group of players. this could also increase the viability of merc contracts. what changes would you like to see to war-dec mechanics regarding this? lo-sec, hi-sec, and w-sec, tends to be where most smaller groups hang out, afaik. hi-sec and wormholes already get a lot of attention in csm x. what changes would you like to see most in lo-sec to encourage activity there as well as make it more fun and interesting, especially with regard to fw. in my opinion, new players are the lifeblood of eve. what changes would you like to see to encourage new players into the game and not just stuck running missions for a few months before finding the game boring and unsubbing? where do you stand on new players and how important do you think considering new players (and how to involve them) is on the priority list? you mention you have little experience in hi-sec, yet that's where almost all players begin playing. how did you start in eve and what do you plan to do to learn more about hi-sec and the other activities you say you don't do? you say that you are a pvper yet you have posted your campaign on a character that only has 2 depots lost in a 1.0 system, and which was created in september 2014. why are you hiding behind such an alt if you have played for 5 years? you can excuse me for finding this somewhat hypocritical. i'm sure. tell us a little more about what you have been doing for 5 years in the game. thanks for reading, and i hope you have a chance to reply before the coming elections,--fang"
"a bump for borat!"
"yes, i will.. what sugar kyle and corbexx have done for their tenure for csm x is my model i will strive to duplicate for those that elected me. i will do my best to bring out the arguments read on the forums by the tenants of this play style, on the topics that will come up, and condense those for ccp. this active involvement plus the clear axe of my campaign, if i am elected, means that ccp will know i am speaking for a segment usualy under represented on the csm. in the end ccp is responsible for the balamces they want for the game, it will be my duty to make sure they receive the proper feedback. this said, i am confident that they know solo players are also a group to not ignore, as ccp seagull has mentioned solo players a few times already since she became the executive producer. yes, there is a clear risk of in-game retaliation with public alts, which as you know one of the reasons i run under this currently allowed anonymous alt system because of the threats my radical ideas for csm x can bring to my assets. i believe such a measure would effectively affect the way players choose to behave with their different accounts under such a risk, and will decide on their own if the risk of undertaking specific actions from various accounts that can link back to the same player will be worth it, much like a pvper decide of the risk when engaging a combat, or a trader risk their isks in the markets.... after all, if one get harassed to that degree, he or she has the same tools to see who is doing it too, and respond in kind, and everyone will still be free to diversiy their alts accordingly. right now, utilising anonymous alts is an activity that does not fit on the risk versus reward approach that most of the other activities in eve are designed around. i would have to read more about this from all sides before committing to a response. war-dec is not a very high priority item for solo players. the only thing i have already heard, and that i do support, is that a player corp with no fixed assets has no reasons to be war-deccable, which is something i would support. getting involved for the minmatar faction and help turning the tides in factional warfare against the amarr is next on my to-do list in game. i have no personal experience with it at the moment, and once elected would have to read about it and practice more in that area to be able to present ideas toward the goal you describe for low-sec.to be continued..."
"i have summarized my thoughts about new players here.it is truly important to not have them be left hanging in a game that is so full of potentials. having large groups create training corps, that are funneling them in their structures is a natural state of the eve online players' driven experience, and it is great to see this developping. i certainly wish for them to know that you still can play the game solo, but like my own trajectory, it is not something that is really do-able fairly early in-game if your focus is pvp.i have myself joined the game, discarded the tutorials and missioning rapidly, as my focus was on pvp, before heading to a training corp and then joining null sec.. it is only after a few years, and the introduction of wormholes, that i have found my solo play style.i wish playing solo in the sense of establishing your assets there could be a reasonable option in null-sec and low-sec too, which is why i believe nomadism needs to be developed more, and may be a solution for the smaller entities in those spaces, together with for example establishing sov on a small portion of a system, like an asteroid belt for a solo player... yes, i like pvp but i am a solo player, not a \"solo pvper\"... often both terms are mixed together ignoring that sometime a \"solo pvper\" flies with only one visible ship, yes, but can have a significant amount of infrastructures behind him, especialy intel channels, links, and reinforcements or srp. of course it removes nothing from their skills and the glamour they cast on the solo play style in general. i do my own srp, links, isk making without paying a dime to any other player's structure, and i usualy pvp via multiboxing without isboxer (and i am not using key duplication anymore, of course, as i am glad it got banned and i supported this change for fairness to all players)i am not exposing my other alts because via my pvp activity, locating me is extremely easy (one of the reason i would favor nomadism as a realistic way to make a living as well as some kind of metagame fog of war around the killboard data). the killboard also dictates so much within the large groups that i believe they are a nuisance to the game, which i got rid of by going solo. tools to measure \"**** sizes\" have never been my cup of tea, especially in a sandbox game like eve. i am not driven by the quality of my killboard in the way i play eve, but in the fun i can have doing my own hunting, in a space where my assets are at risk all the time."
"belinda hwafang wrote: something you should consider adding / thinking about to regarding your proposed eula change: by restricting alts chribba style, it solves one of the biggest problems in eve: someone spending their \"off-time\" in incursions, renter minin/ratting, or in freighter ganking on an alt to fund their \"main\" activities, without risking repercussions from any of those groups, which is why i like it. i do not think pointting anyone is really useful, but at the same time, i do believe that if the eula was going to be changed in such a way there should be at least a few months long period where everyone should have a chance to sell some of their characters before public alts become a thing, so as to protect the aspect of the image they want to project to everyone."
"thank you for the detailed answers, good luck in the elections.--fang"
"i am a new player but i have spent the past two weeks trying to become as educated as i can with the election process, issues and candidates.from all i have read you are the first candidate i can definitely say you will have my vote.keep up the good work!"
"current ratting? no. but if new npc's were to show up i would be fine with them being more ai wise and doing things like warping out or calling for reinforcements which would, in turn, mean that the player would have to fit points to keep the target handy. i like the concept of the newer things being smarter but nobody was screaming for belt rats to suddenly be sleeper level or sansha tanked. each type will be its own class.as for the invulnerability period timers? yeah, that would be nice. i find myself counting out loud when it is a situation where the time means something.no, damage control is fine as it is. thus it can be capped out, turned off and is a darwin check for people coming into a system. (and yes, i have failed that check more than once)mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"you're on my ballots, mike.good luck. part-time wormhole pirate <U+30C4> full-time supermodel <U+25B7> wor<U+043C><U+043D>ole d<U+03B9>ary + c<U+043D>aracer <U+03B9>o <U+25B7> sss"
"hello mike. can you name one issue / point that was discussed during the past year's csm meetings (and not under nda) that you felt strongly about and were in disagreement with the majority of other csm members. doesn't matter if you got your way or not.describe briefly the argument you presented to defend the issue. and the challenges you faced, if any, being the \"mission running/casual\" candidate among the others. thanks,fang"
"this will seem to be an odd choicethe sensitivity training. drama started early in the csm and lines were drawn. ccp tried to calm the waters by having a meeting to discuss professional conduct with the csm. it was needed because not only did we have negative people towards the process but also people who brought their 'in game' politics into the csm and continued game agendas. this made the council less functional than it could have been.'eve is politics and i can play nasty if i want' was said to which i responded 'this is not eve. we are a council discussing eve.'some folks never got it and at least one of them is running again. others mocked the process of trying to bring a level of professionalism to the council and made jokes about singing kumbaya. they never ever got the message and we suffered for it. i will say it again, here. csm is not about the game politics. it is politics so we can talk about the game. anyone unable to lay their baggage at the door and discuss things calmly from their positions of knowledge rather than from in game prejudice is doing the game, the voters, and the council a great disservice.there were other times that i was the adversary but most of them are still too ndad to discuss.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"i asked a tricky question and i got an excellent response. thank you and good luck in the elections, mike.--fang"
"just looking through some previous replies while waiting for the server. cod obviously isn't the same as eve online and you make yourself look like an idiot to say so. in eve you can do many activities that are not directly a combat situation although they could arguably in a way be construed as being pvp. whereas cod is all about fighting and pvp and there is little else to do there."
"personally i feel the new awox settings are potentially hazardous because if we accidentally shoot a corpie then concord will come and kill us. so i will be leaving it as 'unsafe' as before. and before someone points it out i know i'm the only girl in my corporation. i'm speaking theoretically."
"we' were considering giving you are votes for the csm candidacy as we like some of your ideas such as renovating the wardec system to increase the costs if a large force wishes to attack a small or tiny force. we also liked your idea of giving small percentage increases eg to mining yield for pilots who stay in the same player-run corporations for say three months or more. i think you also gave support to, i think it was steve ronukens idea , to bring some kind of sovereignty aspect or control of systems to high sec. that idea interests me but it would have to be tightly controlled and well thought out. otherwise it would end up like the situation with high sec pocos which to my mind isn't healthy.it sounds like you would also like to remove high sec from the game which i don't really agree with. can you explain your thoughts again on this policy ?"
"just want to throw my support behind sabriz. he is articulate, reasonable and has good ideas, which are all important traits for a csm member."
"with the safe option turned on you would only be able to shoot a corp mate with safeties set to red, otherwise your safeties would prevent you from shooting. that being said i leave my corp on 'unsafe' as well."
"i do not want to remove highsec. eve should be balanced on a sliding scale of risk vs reward, with wormhole space and nullsec offering the highest rewards alongside the highest risk, rookie systems offering almost no reward and almost no risk, and highsec and lowsec somewhere in the middle of those two.highsec's two defining traits are the presence of large quantities of neutrals among whom a minority of predators may be hiding, and the fact that the defender has significant but not overwhelming advantages in any conflict (concord in ganks, ability to call in allies in wardecs, ability to have armed neutral assistance when you shoot a suspect, etc).the game can and should have areas like this."
"my suggested voting platform:1: sabriz adoudel2: tora bushido3: steve ronuken4-14: fill all of these out with candidates of your choice that are not mike azariah. if you do not have enough candidates you care about, pick ones at random.the reasoning:ideally i'd like to get voted up on my own rights. however, if i am not elected, under stv a 1 sabriz 2 tora vote is (almost) equivalent to a 1 tora vote. i feel tora is the second best highsec predator candidate and would be a huge asset to the csm whether i am elected or not, and my voters might help put tora over the line. steve r probably doesn't need help getting over the line but i don't think this should be left to chance. the csm needs someone with his unique skillset.mike azariah was instrumental in providing feedback that led to incursion changes. while he presented these changes as 'quality of life' changes, they have been major balance changes that have further damaged the (already seriously bad) risk to reward imbalance present in highsec incursion farming. eve was made actively worse by these changes. regardless of any positive qualities mike may have as a person or organizer, eve would be better if his feedback on game balance issues is marginalized or ignored.it may seem that his feedback is irrelevant if you do not participate in incursions yourself, but the enormous amounts of liquid isk poured into the economy by incursions transforms the game economy considerably. this is true of nullsec ratters as well, but null ratters do at least drive small gang fights and occasionally larger conflicts.under stv, it is an optimal voting strategy to fill your ballot with candidates that have a fringe chance of being elected if you wish to reduce one particular candidate's chance of getting elected."
"thats my opinion too. befor i moved forward to fcon - ive spendet a lot time in providence and enjoyed the fleets with core. and thats what shan sind wrote - is the point i will definitly vote for core again. his passion for the game and the people -i hope he takes this many good qualities with in his work as a csm again to do his best to make our hobby eve a better place!so +1 core for csm x"
"you say you understand new players. new players or the lack thereof are going to decide if eve continues to thrive or wilts away slowly in the coming years. i do think brave has clearly done many things right. when i would visit barleguet in 2014 i would often be impressed at the numbers undocking to pvp, mine, probe, gatecamp, and so on.however i have never played in brave and have not had the pleasure to create any brave spy characters (exactly what a spy would say) so i have not had the pleasure to read your corp chat, forums or hear your teamspeak. what is it that brave does to engage so well with new players and capture their imagination?what do you think it is that we the players and they the devs can do to reveal the fing awesome aspects of eve when they are 3 months in and already feeling the drudgery of running some missions in hi-sec?--fang"
"you have my vote because being in bni , i am able to see the work that you and all the others players are doing for us ,the newbies. if it wouldn t be the brave newbie community , i m sure i wasn t playing this game anymore. so, if you will represent newbies in csm, as you do in our corporation , than you should be there for us!!! also i wanna thank you now with this opportunity for everything that you are making for us. or maybe i should send a corporation mail with thanks? nahh, i don t wanna dye before my time! :))) good luck!!"
"she has my vote and she should have yours too... i will tell you why.recently she took the time to speak to me 1 on 1 on coms.she logged in a roqual to make clones for me and 2 alts.the whole time she was cool, kind and patient.if you are miner she told me her \"favorite ship is a roqual.\"if you are a pvper, she is a passionate defender of a pvpers interests.please give her your vote, she deserves it, and we deserve someone like her representing us to ccp."
"+4low sec representative of my heart(unless someone more arousing steps up)tundragon is recruiting! \"also, your boobs [:o] \" ccp eterne, 2012 \"when in doubt...make a di<U+023C>k joke.\" robin williams - rip"
"threw you some vote love."
"the following is an excerpt of my endorsements for csmx:the rest of the article/list is found here. best of luck, sugar!"
"hello sugar,i would like fw to be changed so that allegiance to a faction wasn't (for most people) merely an incentive to just choose the faction based on lp stores and isk per hour. perhaps open up special cosmetic items (medals, ribbons, ship skins) or something else that could not be traded, or perhaps a deeper involvement in the story through certain scripted npc events or billboard adverts or other ways to engage a veteran of a particular fw faction. you probably have better ideas already, after all, i don't spend much time in losec these days.and could we please please have pirate factions in the fw system?i would like to hear your thoughts on my suggestions and if these topics have ever reached csm airtime recently? (i do try to skim read the csm minutes but i am less than thorough perhaps).--fang"
"don't forget, my rorqual which has the ore edition skin is named 'buttered scone'.belinda,i want fw to be more than where and who has the best lp. there are a lot of rules and restrictions that a fw pilot takes on to battle for their militia. i've pushed for and continued to push for more depth in the war zone, more lore and dynamic changes from the war zone.i'd love pirates moving more into non fw low sec but i don't think just making fw with pirate militas would be that exciting game play. having players able to align themselves with pirate factions for other interesting reasons, rewards, and hard decisions would be fantastic and start adding more to the nature of things. i like piracy as a player and piracy as a game expander.and yes, there are whole files and conversations in the csm forums/confluence pages about fw. i've been going to members and gathering all of that up. from the winter minutes we've had an uptick in fw which is a good thing to see. there are many things on my plate for this such as a look over the missions, lp, and pvp reward systems to name a few."
"great platform. i'm curious what your thoughts are on current highsec wardec mechanics and if you feel there are any issues that which need to be addressed?"
"thank you for the detailed answers, good luck in the elections.--fang"
"the following is an excerpt of my endorsements for csmx:the rest of the article/list is found here. best of luck, endie!"
"looking at you as a candidate, i see you have been involved in a lot, great. however it seems you have been very inactive for a while now? do you think that past experience makes up for inactivity now? why should i vote for someone who is not very active?"
"the following is an excerpt of my endorsements for csmx:the rest of the article/list is found here. best of luck, manny!"
"i'm inactive? i just lead a campaign against solar , black legion and triumvirate. i fc'd fleets as little as 2 days ago."
"he loves eve."
"rip also : +1 for bobmon"
"not voting for anything pl since i heard excessive use of racial epithet on twitch streams by pl leadership."
"vote for bobmon!"
"bobmon wrote:the bellow concepts are just idea's based on either ccp idea's or player feedback! concept #1 ''hardcore player mode'' ccp rise talked about this a few weeks back and it got me interested. i did some thinking, and i liked the idea to have a ''special alt'' who is badass at doing pvp related stuff. hardcore player mode in my opinion should be based on the pirate faction lines, this would work because it would back up the fact that your char can always be shot, even in highsec by all other players. this char is special because once you ''unlock'' it you get a certain amount of sp that you can use on almost all pvp related skills.. with ''almost all'' i mean that i want to exclude every skill that doesn't require you to actually pvp in your ship such as:- no cloak and cloak related ships (bombers, probers)- no station skills- no poss related skills (only anchor maybe)these pirate faction chars would only have the capability to fly their own pirate race ships (maybe all pirate ships, haven't decided yet) because they created these themselves to fight off their enemies. the effect of them self designing their ships might result in a small extra bonus but again, not sure on this yet.pirate chars won't have access to wh space because their focus is to fight their true enemy, the big four factions. fleet wise i want these chars to basically be solo ''roaming'' <U+FFFD>cross new eden but i do think that they should be able to group up with other pirates of their faction but this might result in them getting some drawbacks at forming fleets or whatever. pirate chars should basically force a player to be on top of their game or they get killedpirates can maybe even make isk through killing people that do militia related stuff, and i would love them to be these little pricks who cause a lot of chaos everywhere their go.#3 lowsecmake lowsec better for new alliances and players to get into pvp so that they have a place to grow (more on this in this you can find here)i think if i may be frank in my response that these two bullet points are the main reasons why i will not be voting for you in the csm. i'll outline my counter reasons below:1. \"hardcore mode\". while i admire that you think pirates in eve are \"hardcore\" i find the concept of alts skipping training and other foundation based skills for the sole purpose of having a \"max level\" alt is utterly ridiculous. eve is full of alts. i myself have six accounts for various uses and i'm sure you being in pl have members that have dozens of alt accounts. putting alts in a position of \"niche\" maxed pvp skilled factions for the sole purpose of getting into pvp quicker in theory is okay but when looked at in eve's current playstyle of having multiple accounts and characters is rather dangerous and unreasonable. various entities would just train alts and place them in whatever pirate faction gave the best bonus for the current meta to support whatever doctrines were niche at the time.furthermore, the concept of locking out players of certain areas like wh's not only neuters wh's usefulness post phoebe for travel and fleet placement, but limits the concept of the sandbox as a whole. pirates already become locked out of high sec due to security status. further restricting players based upon \"lore\" or rather your loose concept of what lore should be in eve is rather damaging to an already dying playstyle.which leads me to my next point:2. lowsec.your concept of low sec being a \"training ground\" for a bunch of f1 pressing tidi fests is not only laughable, but is frankly insulting to those of us who live in low sec for the very fights you claim low sec is to \"train\" people towards in null. null is not the end all nor is it the be all of eve. there are many players who flock to low sec to get away from the very grinds and blobs that you claim is the \"endgame\" of eve online. not only do i disagree with this ignorant concept but i find it rather amusing how low sec is so lightly thrown aside to only focus upon what makes your game playable for your specific niche.indeed why wouldn't we get rid of post phoebe changes to jump fatigue and give players streamlined combat alts? with your proposed reduction of nerfs to jump fatigue there would be no use for wh's and it would once again align entities who depended upon non fatigue timers and high sp characters with being back on top of the proverbial food chain.which leads be to my conclusion:1. there are already pirates in low sec (hi! *waves*)2. using low sec as a watered down region where players dip their toes in for very little to skitter off to null is baseless and frankly insulting not only to those who thrive upon small gang pvp, but feel very strongly of improving and making low sec and piracy a viable and fun place.3. post phoebe changes are staying because it defangs entities who forgot to use stargates and trying to undo them is laughable. until you actually approach people as a csm candidate and try to learn their playstyle don't go throwing out ignorant concepts as the \"best\" solution or idea. it makes you look bad."
"chance voted for you on all my accounts, didn't bother submitting anyone for my second, third choice ect. as i don't care if anyone else gets on the csm. i was close to quitting the game for good after 11 years of playing but your video's and how you help the new bro's has made me get of my ass and do something different in eve."
"it may be a particularly tough and large field this year, but as fc of some of fleets i've been in, it's evident that large and tough fields are your home.i vote for you."
"no more nerfing! enhance gameplay - yes!enhance the first time user experience - yes!nerf the game more to appease the carebears - hell no!roll back as much of the nerfing already done as possible - yes!"
"+1 for harry saq.good guy, loves the game, would be great on the csm."
"you know what day it is?!\"it's hump day!!\"...and i hear there is an election ;)vote for me please!"
"also, to those conspiratorial types, it is official, i am not an official cfc null sec block candidate, and truly independent (as i stated before). for all you blue donut haters, and anti-collusion types, i have been confirmed to be on my own, so a vote for me is a vote for freedddoooommmm???...or something, but yeah, please vote for me, i will represent the player base, not a preferred group, you can see from my posts that i care about the overall game design and quality gaming, not any special interest."
"to see my responses to the 60 question eve match survey you can go here:"
"what does any of this actually mean? balancing by cost?"
"it means moving towards a model where the invention and manufacturing process actually has an outcome on the ship, and that is where numbers tweaking and modifications happen by the players. eve has done a remarkable job at creating a market and economic system based on player based manufacturing. essentially it requires a different mentality, building and invention are actually just that. the baseline physics, mechanics and engine are all that are really needed, ship modules and composition along with various choices in building would provide the customization and performance balance on a daily basis.that is essentially the tldr, though i have said it better elsewheres ;)"
"@djyumene #everadio join"
"thank you so much for the interview! it was a pleasure being able to sit down with you guys."
"1) i think that alignment with a pirate faction should be something that is a mechanical part of the game. obviously real implementation like a fw type situation would be a very long hard process. however there are a number of extremely interesting characters and organizations out there. it would be nice to at the very least align yourself, and possibly get friendly status with, a pirate faction. i have known several people who would enjoy that very much.2) i do have a carrier . but to be more real, i have watched the balance of exploration go back and forth recently, and while it does often change my bottom lines and fun factor of these activities, i think ccp should have the right to massage features to ensure they are where they need to be. if we (players and ccp) treat feature re-balances as the end-all-be-all, we cripple ourselves from being able to take daring risks. loot spew was one such idea.3) it's hard to say what lowsec really needs while the null problem is so oppressive. i think lowsec (specifically fw lowsec) is in one of the best places it has been in years. however as null stagnates, low is being overloaded by bored sov folks. we really need to get sov working for the benefit of everyone."
"so voting has begun and i am humbled to have so many excellent endorsements!i would like to point out once more that i wouldn't have taken this on without the full support of my family. i feel confident i can put your vote to good use, and make you happy with my representation and activity. i have written a post about my endorsements for csm, you can check it out here."
"voting is open.gogogogo"
"look at the names in that post. such history.2012 was a great year in nulsec. hbc had 14,000 proud sperging assholes all shooting the crap out of each other the south.eve-o isn't just about ships balancing, power projection, economics, and meta-gaming spies. its also about the ties and friendships we form with other players that transcend alliance or coalition boundaries. i think migui knows something of that.the csm needs a member that knows what its like to go from major powerhouse to utter bottom of the barrel, and the long climb back out of irrelevance. he also has a stable personality and a dislike of drama, unlike certain other candidates. if you are a member of test you should be voting for this guy. even if you're not, you should still vote for him."
"as cycule's ceo he has my full support in representing morts corp and the kadashi alliance."
"as an industrial and mining mentor to cycule i would like to throw my support behind him in his campaign for csm. not only does cycule understand the pvp players concerns for the game but he also understands the plight of the little man. he does understand that not every person plays the game the same way and we don't all have the same goals in mind.cycule is a well rounded player with the knowledge and drive to be a great csm representative for us all. no one person can change the world but with enough people like cycule we can change the eve universe to be a better place for us all."
"still some spots remaining, especially for null sec."
"i can't make firm commitments that weekend right now due to upcoming potential travel plans. if you want me as an alternate i'm happy to step in for that."
"sure june. any partic time or if you can make it you'd be good for all three?"
"hey thanks for the heads up lol"
"no not believing ;)"
"wow after this week, ill vote for anyone that can get 'down time' moved forward 3 or 4 hours...."
"soooo.... what about ogb?"
"solo pvp? i thought you used links"
"i do not own a link alt."
"pretty weak. no reduction in effectiveness, no range specifics other than 'on-grid'."
"because range specifics don't actually work mechanically atm. even \"on grid\" doesn't work at the moment."
"flown with decimat draconia in null for a long time, straight shooter, very active, good pvper and the right man to represent us for csm, period.he definitely has my vote for csm"
"+1would happily fly with again."
"hello i'm ryan farmern, the correct person for you to vote for in csm x.i'm not much for running a campaign, but i am running this year because i feel ccp has made too many big changes too fast. i think we need to look at fixing some of the game mechanics: need more useful deployables wormholes need ice belts, possibly not the exact same. ice belts need to be an ihub upgrade, not a lucky geo location better ewar balance reevaluate t2 production, ccp to actually ask the community about big changes capital mining ships (more risk for more isk, comparable to what a ratting toon can make/hour) dock-able capitals in high sec better interface for corp roles same thing for pos roles, anchoring, timers pi overhaul reevaluate multiboxing policy to be strict on combat and not on industry cloaking ships need bubble nullified, but for cloaking devices to use fuel of isos or lo, also add a fuel bay and skill that effects fuel consumption. new players need better tutorials, and something pointing them to verified new player corps other than eveu. i could sit here for hours thinking of changes/balances i think eve needs. couldn't we all?vote for ryan farmern. the csm everyone needs to fix eve, not just one area of space."
"this makes me moist"
"i support most of these changes, good luck, you have my vote."
"we have had the distinct advantage of having xander on csm 9, facilitating our insatiable interest in all things eve. 1. all acknowledge the work he's put in, regardless of whatever they may make of his style.2. he's put his weight and intellect behind the removal of multibox automation increasing profits for miners, and hopefully increasing the constituency of miners, and therefore their stake in the game.3. he delivers the skinny on what's going on in the csm and presses ccp to tell us and keep us informed up to the mark but no further.4. he's demonstrated that he's independent, articulate and hardworking with a deep interest in the game above all!and he's a no nonsense scott!vote xander if you want to keep on being so well informed!"
"sat down to talk about the process with the legacy of a capsuleer dudes a few days ago. recording is now available to listen to here:"
"i have detailed my own ballot and the reasons for it in my latest csm9 weekly report here:"
"viable questions, curious for the answers as well."
"i think the biggest problem for communities like rvb ganked, spectre fleet or stille gewalt, is the inability to get in contact with players who might not directly the target group.a feature/tool like the \"social groups\" which was mentioned in the winter sumit, is a good solution for that.i think you should get on a conscience level, the repartee of \"power blocks\", especially in the sov space where are finally some people who like the \"quantity\"-way.i think the \"running away\" or accidentally \"jump in\"-aspect in eve should be obtained.finally, it should not give the fleet-doctrine which always work. why should they might work again on ishtar online.soon?and yes :p"
"so tomorrow is the big day.i have no specific endorsements to make. vote for whomever you think best represents and voices your playstyle.if you don't know who a person on your ballot is, you shouldn't be voting for them."
"you got my vote.gl with the elections"
"vote vicalso hahaha during this campaign we traded corps"
"the following is an excerpt of my endorsements for csmx:the rest of the article/list is found here. best of luck, sion!"
"hello sion kumitomo,you have my votebye"
"i guess i am always open to hear the reasons why ccp would not think to implement some of these ideas and revel in the challenge of someone as stubborn as myself. i see the csm as an oppertunity to shake things up, when people get accustomed to the bars or limitations its our job to bend and break them.in regards to incursions. i think they are fantastic! but they are just in the wrong area. people in nullsec, mainly ratters have been telling me they crave some sort team based isk making source. as a 10/10 runner, i can tell you running anything with more than 2 people is a fruitless endevour compared to highsec incursions. i guess my real problem comes down to the security of it all. if my cloaking overhaul would be looked at, it would make space more secure; a trained team could lock down an area long enough to run various things, but with the risk. there is no risk/reward in highsec its all reward.i feel that running missions is great but my main gripe is that people can section themselves off from the forces which drive everything in this game. the pvp. the problem is that they become so sectioned that they become a seperate part of a community which needs new blood, new targets new opportunities. while mission runners are a community in itself again we must not lose sight of the driving force of eve. by putting level 4's into lowsec i feel it would breath new life into endles dead systems while balancing the risk/reward that drake belt ratting in nullsec for his first time has to face.buying sp. well to be honest i feel that a character is your identity that you mould over your time in eve. its true that people pick up and drop characters, alts holding toons with ease but i find myself firmly atttached to the, iconic lyonic. buying a character with raw isk does not put anything into the pockets of plex suppliers, i feel that with increased revenue comes increased development and safeguarding of cashcows. milk me. there are playing with vast amount of isk who would could finish that training que a little faster or get into that new ship. remember if you want to get the sp, lets say around 2 million sp per plex, you have to find the isk to buy the plex. its a whole new area of character development. you can right now grind out your assets but no matter what you do your speed at getting into to new ships and areas of the game is slow, and i want to open up this game for everyone. after all it is our wits that defines the combat not the sp.i know its hard to open your mind to new ideas but i really feel this would be a good thing and i welcome all comments!"
"1. where should new players go?3. how does high sec even come close to being as big a problem as null sec stagnation?"
"new players should stay in highsec until they are ready (or their skills say ''hey cmon time to make some isk to use us''). the way i have always seen the journey from high > low > null is that is a progression. you learn the bsics in highsec, then in lowsec you use your knowledge and begin to learn about stuff like, gate mechanics station guns, using dscan etc. then when you know how to handle danger you move to nullsec and learn about bubbles and player owned stations etc. maybe take part in some big fleets you already know what the zones have to offer. the point is that the sp and the isk should be in balance in these areas as they progress. the problem is that you can effectivly stay in highsec your entire life and thats cool, but it should be at a cost risk/reward.the thing with highsec is, it holds alot of players, now sure if lets say my changes about shifting the wealth back to the proper places happened, i know that everyone would not leave highsec. however i believe that people will start to understand the risk/reward + pvp community alot better. now they dont have to pvp, heck there are miners mission runners etc and they should be aware of pvpers and take evasive manouvers and work for their isk."
"and yet all current statistic say that null sec is the safest place to make isk and the high sec population is decreasing."
"here is your campaign ad."
"hey bud, so your statistics are for like a few days so you cant really see any long term pattern, also the graph shows there are a lot more players in highsec. i am not saying highsec is too safe at all. i am saying that you can make too much money in relative safety in highsec. i feel that the whole starting tutorial needs to be totally revamped in every way (it is a difficult game). its far to complicated at hits people with way to much information at the start. i would like to see a starship trooper style 'would you like to know more' for the different areas of eve. maybe even a pre-entering the world a few options like:i want to shoot peoplei want to mine and make stuffi want to run quests and explore the lorethe choices could mean a different, more easy to digest tutorial. by having fuller systems in lowsec and nullsec there is more of a chance of someone picking them up for their corp."
"just to touch on this issue again:what is it that makes you feel null ratters need to not be threatened by afk cloakers, while also wanting high ratters to be threatened by lowsec piracy? what makes diminished risk in nullsec justified, but the current level of risk in highsec unjustified?"
"good question mixu. before i can answer you i need to let you know where i stand on a few things so you guys can better understand my answer.what is a renter imo? i think a renter is someone who enjoys living in nullsec but does not necessary want to pvp. he wants to rat some isk, run missions, mine do some pi all the stuff nullsec has to offer without fighting. i think this is awsome because we need more people doing this stuff in nullsec.when i was in ink i remember fleets going up to ward of roaming gangs who came through our renter space, after all we are the landlords and its our job to keep the space as safe as we can. keep the space is what makes it yours.risk in nullsec:i see risk as that ceptor pilot jumping in and warping to anoms, and the gang that follows after to kill the snared target. i see risk as dudes popping out of wh space raiding the space which grows fat with the grinding of isk. why do i want to remove afk cloaking: if a blops gang has say 20 people in it and lets say they all have one alt on average. (some people have more, others none). if i put 20 alts into systems where renters frequent for the purpose of dropping on them there is nothing the renters can do. they are renters because they dont want to fight remember or fighting is not their priority. now you could say 'form up a fleet etc' but thats what they are paying for, the protection.so why is running level 4 missions to be made riskier (by making them in lowsec) and why am i taking risk away from nullsec from afk cloakers? simple i feel that balance means there is a counter to something, the level 4 mission runner can scout, fit warp stabs, make safe spots even stick up a pos or mobile depot. the renter can do nothing but die when the cloak comes off, the scrams are applied and the cyno goes up...along with a local spike. i don't see afk cloaking a risk, i see it as an imbalance."
"when you remove cloaky camping though isn't that just removing all risk completely? sure there is a chance a ceptor can catch you but if intel is up to date and you are watching it then there is more or less 0 risk. the same with wh's, you can simply just not rat in a system with a wh and keep an eye on intel."
"sure if you own 20 systems and have poses, or stations can an move to these systems. what if you own 1 system? wh are the place with constant risk, nullsec is not wh space. there is risk but not as much.there are enough players in eve to stick a claoked into every system. if they are active thats fine but afk people affecting a 30 man corp or whatever is wrong in my book. and this mans not for changin'"
"hey alex i've got a few questions for you if you wouldn't mind answering them:1) aside from the jump drive changes for the rorqual what else would you like to see changed to make it a unique ship with a unique role once again?2) would you support dialing down (removing) the jump fatigue for combat capitals so they can be used more than once a day? as it stands now it takes forever to move them out of staging and into position. i know some of this is intended, but as it is right now its jump...go watch a movie...then jump again. its boring game play that doesn't have the edgy \"choice\" feel people keep banging on about. 3) going along with your pos fitting idea, are there any other changes to pos mechanics you'd like to see done? or any changes to reactions/ pos layout? it seems like you're pretty well limited in your choices when it comes to pos design and it neither offers fun/ interesting gameplay nor rewarding experiences. 4) what is your opinion on the current state of pve in nullsec? are expeditions too pointless with the new jump fatigue mechanic? are the different regions balanced in terms of moons, ratting etc? if they are unbalanced what would you do (if anything) to encourage greater balance? #4 seems to me like its going to become a bigger question now that the drifters are in the game. iirc drifters/ unidentified structures appear more in different regions and depending on whether or not they add or detract value from a region it will create a disparity. while i agree some regions need a boost to their \"value\" i think these drifters (if they keep on in their current iteration) will either be too worthless to attack or if they attack sov/ claim sov. they'll be too much of a nuisance and only further detract from the regions value."
"question, you clearly have strong ideas about eradicating stagnation, which i like, but why then are you part of one of the alliances in one of the most stagnant coalitions in-game?"
"1) aside from the jump drive changes for the rorqual what else would you like to see changed to make it a unique ship with a unique role once again?it has a unique: best boosts. i'd like to see the ship maintenance array have the same capabilities as the orca (allow all ships, not just indy), but that isn't to make it more unique, just more useful.2) would you support dialing down (removing) the jump fatigue for combat capitals so they can be used more than once a day? yes.as it stands now it takes forever to move them out of staging and into position. i know some of this is intended, but as it is right now its jump...go watch a movie...then jump again. its boring game play that doesn't have the edgy \"choice\" feel people keep banging on about. 3) going along with your pos fitting idea, are there any other changes to pos mechanics you'd like to see done? or any changes to reactions/ pos layout? i'd like to see pos gunning reworked so that it's not a pain in the ass.it seems like you're pretty well limited in your choices when it comes to pos design and it neither offers fun/ interesting gameplay nor rewarding experiences. the same could be said of several ships when it comes to pvp fits. i'd say it's the current 'meta', but for poses it's been the same way for ages. there's only so many ways to fit a tower for the same exact purpose like a dickstar, deathstar, etc.4) what is your opinion on the current state of pve in nullsec? are expeditions too pointless with the new jump fatigue mechanic? are the different regions balanced in terms of moons, ratting etc? if they are unbalanced what would you do (if anything) to encourage greater balance? phoebe freeport made it work to some extent, but it's hard for any new group to make headway the way jump range has limited attacks. geography and range now have to be factored into attacks and defenses, and existing empires seem to have enough power to shift pvp resources around to deal with border incursions. moon goo isn't balanced but until it's made into something more dynamic or a resource that shifts around or decays over time, it will stay unbalanced and nice isk faucets for the empires.#4 seems to me like its going to become a bigger question now that the drifters are in the game. iirc drifters/ unidentified structures appear more in different regions and depending on whether or not they add or detract value from a region it will create a disparity. while i agree some regions need a boost to their \"value\" i think these drifters (if they keep on in their current iteration) will either be too worthless to attack or if they attack sov/ claim sov. they'll be too much of a nuisance and only further detract from the regions value.they're something new that ccp is still developing, so i think the players and csm can continue giving them feedback on the drifters and hopefully they'll turn out well. it doesn't seem like they're even as bad as nullsec incursion rats yet though."
"as i believe i mentioned in my interview with cap stable, the evolution of politics cannot be reversed. it used to be that corporations set each other blue and called those standings alliances, which were later formalized into a mechanic by ccp. since then, we have had alliances then setting each other blue and those are called coalitions.i doubt that ccp plans on or wants to formalize any type of coalition management mechanic (unless the population of eve drastically increases), and i wouldn't support it either. although from a talk about the crest api system at eve vegas, there will likely soon be new functionality released that allows standings to be set via api (third-party developer applications) which means that alliances who have organized services and would subsequently create semi-automated services to manage standings would technically have a mechanic to better manage their 'coalition'.as for why i'm a member of one of the ~largest (perhaps in characters, though not people) alliances in the n3 coalition, it's because i enjoy it. i also reject the premise that n3 itself is stagnant. i believe that borders are relatively stagnant and that this = stagnant 'content', however politics will never change and groups have learned the vast benefits in securing their borders cheaply and diplomatically. it is to our benefit (one type of benefit) that we minimize conflict zones, however that doesn't encourage fighting. eve has evolved from many battles, to some wars, to a few great wars, and then to the super[capital]-cold war.if elected to csm, then i serve the whole interests of eve which would be encouraging more destruction which fuels the universal economy, but until then, i serve the interests of my coalition, alliance, and corporation.tl;dr things didn't used to be quite as stagnant, and i've made friends here that i care about."
"thanks. ccp should support the 'media' in eve that covers in-game events and more. it's a cheap and effective way to get more individuals to try the game out."
"voting is open now, get out and vote."
"literally the only person who i want to vote for, +1."
"well, in that case you represent the ants. i'll vote for you."
"the following is an excerpt of my endorsements for csmx:the rest of the article/list is found here. best of luck, psianh!"
"you do a very good job of not including any reason why i should vote for you in the your op. why should i as a vote believe that there will be no conflict of interest considering you run an alliance. everyone has bias towards the group they are part of. how do we know you won't either try guide the csm to your alliance benefit, or guide your alliance using knowledge from the csm?"
"great site to help put all the candidates in perspective.match.eve csm10 domanarkdomanark co-host clueless space nerds podcast"
"destructible stations/outposts in nullsec - surestations/outposts in wspace is a hard no and non-starter. the very thought of them defies the spirit of impermanence of wspace."
"yep, i will there"
"sugar - just to confirm, was the ts info sent out? i would like to attend, but haven't received any details."
"i'll be sending info out in a couple hours so dont panic"
"i'll be there as well. will be abit late because of work"
"should be fun! would definitely like to attend :)"
"mails sent with teamspeak details to everyone"
"it would be really great if we could have one of these in a tz that is a little more us friendly. i'd really like to attend, but i'm working at that time, along with 99% of the rest of the people in the americas."
"if i can persuade some devs to come on later i'll happily organise them"
"would love to come if not too late"
"i want a game-mode for valkyrie that entails spending twenty minutes triage-repping a structure while the enemy only shows up -after- we fully triage and have left the grid to drop it back down. /sarcasm"
"if its not too late id love to have a chat about it all :)"
"mailed last couple of people"
"realise i'm cutting this a bit fine, but i'd like to come if there're still slots free."
"sent and thats closed now"
"just saw the twitter message, able to jump in?"
"sorry i missed it folks.i was going to be there. i was just about to leave a user group i was at (free beer!) and work called me, with a frantic plea for me to come in and fix a deployment problem. 3 hours later, i get out."
"thank you for attending. sorry about our troll but he was taken care of quickly.as soon as we get the recording we will make steve deal with it and put it on csm9.org.topics were as listed. we discussed capture mechanics, timers, transfers, pointed out that sov is not all that uses structures. we went from outposts to pocos and is there a better way to defend and predict. reinforcement timers and are they good? do we want pos shields or just a safe area? and a few more things. we ran tight with the 07 show just behind. but this is just a piece of the whole.thank you again."
"i put up cyno jammers and have people in interdictors floating around screaming for the blood of innocent freighters. i have just erased almost all 'additional stations' that you could supply to in null that you can't get to now with the current jf distances, bar those that are currently player owned.those that are player owned are very unlikely to allow in insurgent force to dock in them to reship so they can line up in formation and take honorable turns shooting at each other. congrats, dozens of things that need to camped are now suddenly unnecessary to camp.huzzah! large entities benefit from additional jump ranges while small entities continue to rattle their sabres about how things are unfair and how taking gates is hard."
"it doesn't work that way. you'll have to take sov in all these systems and outposts. you can't put jammers in other people's space. npc stations are even more tricky, you'll need heavy presence in all of them to babysit bumpers 23/7, or random locals will undock and kill them, because they can.it's a game changer compared to current meta, where there are bottlenecks of exactly one station to many regions."
"quoting for emphasis. back when i was a newbie, my corporation (which was about 80% newbies) would operate in groups and use liberal amounts of ecm and sensor dampeners to cover our asses (usually while running missions).when the enemy had a fleet up and bearing towards us we would run back to hq (where we had all consolidated ourselves), jump into ships we didn't mind dying in (also equipped with liberal amounts of ewar), and sit at the gate they would have to jump through to reach us.point is... everyone has access to the same tools and tactics. it is up the individual and groups of players to use recognize that and use those tools and tactics to their advantage. and that is more of a mentality thing than a game mechanics issue.players who have the mentality that they can't \"win\" unless they are \"just as good\" or \"firmly established\" won't survive anywhere in the game... regardless of how much time you give them. and the reason for this is that no matter how \"good\" or \"established\" you are (or become)... there is always someone out there \"better\" in every way.and players who have the mentality that they are entitled to be left alone because, on principle, they should not be forced to do anything they do not want to (or because they are \"special\" or \"new\") are simply playing the wrong game.everything is designed to conflict with everything else. pvpers are forced to perform industry and pve in some capacity... industrialists and pveers are forced to pvp in some capacity. no one is entitled to be \"left alone.\" no one is entitled to build things (even abstractions like corporations) and not expect to be \"pushed around\" by others. and more importantly... no one is entitled to success in this game."
"uh, nope. check the mechanic, there isn't even a cooldown on it.i'm not talking about your meta \"making friends!\" bullshit, i'm talking about game mechanics.eve is a pvp game. it says so in the faq for goodness sakes.shooting people in a pvp game is not griefing. by definition. you can end them. easily. there are several ways to do so. stop ignoring things that don't fit your narrative, it just exposes you for a fool. oh, this ought to be rich.- \"wars are not able to be countered on a fundamental level.\" false, completely.\"- wars are limited in \"risk\" to the initiator. after all, they decide to continue it or not.\" also false. absolutely nothing prevents the defender from shooting back, and thanks to the ally mechanic they can do so greatly in their own favor, for free.- \"wars should need a component that gives the defending party a more impactful method of dealing with them.\" false. defenders have too many already, it needs curtailed."
"i think you're missing my point though. so let me write it down in a tl;dr fashion: yes, i believe that wardecs in core concept are a rightful and needed thing to prevent ultimate security from being reality. yes, i think that people need to be able to fight, and bring their fleets upon the aggressors. no, i do not support more security in high-sec. no matter how many other corporations there are, plenty of them were made from a specific viewpoint and that makes each and every one of them unique. it makes no difference if you spent 1 day or 1 year on your corporation. you work to build something up. due to the current nature of war declarations, there are some things that bother me: all the power to initiate is in the aggressor's hands. when you want to pay you keep it active, yet you get to close the wardec when you are losing without the opposing party having a say in that. the current system highly incentivizes the harrassment and abuse of groups who are too small to field a fleet capable of dealing with your wardeclaration. this abuse can be an issue for players to enjoy the game, which in the end is more important for the health of this game. yes, even carebears matter. there's no way to deal with the wardec other than trying to fight them on their terms. i feel there's a component missing that allows a bit more control on the defending side in terms of how the war plays out. influence over the process is too one-sided and i believe we really need to look into that while preserving the integrity of war declarations. i am all for a good pvp system with the ability to keep people on their toes 24/7. but i do not think that the power to engage should lie with one party. so for example:we could consider making it possible to allow defending parties to prolong a conflict, even if the aggressor wishes to end it, by paying a similar fee per week as the aggressor. this would result in the ability to choose if you want to fight people, as well as giving a little bit of a consideration for the aggressor before they wardec people. right now, if the aggressor loses their fights they let it slide and stop the wardec. but why should they? why can't the defending party choose to extend the war declaration just to mess with you?edit:a griefer is a player in a multiplayer video game who deliberately irritates and harasses other players within the game, using aspects of the game in unintended ways. a griefer derives pleasure primarily or exclusively from the act of annoying other users, and as such is a particular nuisance in online gaming communities, since griefers often cannot be deterred by penalties related to in-game goals. ("
"alexhandr shkarov wrote:a griefer is a player in a multiplayer video game who deliberately irritates and harasses other players within the game, using aspects of the game in unintended ways. a griefer derives pleasure primarily or exclusively from the act of annoying other users, and as such is a particular nuisance in online gaming communities, since griefers often cannot be deterred by penalties related to in-game goals. ("
"you might want to edit your previous posts then, because you've actually posted the complete opposite of these three things. well duh. that's how it works in a predator vs prey situation. if you don't like that, fortunately unlike nature you can just decide to stop being a prey animal.oh, and the defender can have a say in whether the aggressor closes the dec or not, when they're the ones paying for it. all of your problems seem to stem from a pigheaded refusal to actually take the initiative. how about you actually play the damn game? ever thought of that? no. the core principles of this game matter more than people who are deliberately playing the game wrong. unbelievable.you could, and i know this is a shocker... fight on your own terms? stop acting like you're some kind of victim here, you have access to each and every mechanic in the game that the aggressor does, and more besides. it doesn't! people like you are literally giving it away!"
"they are not though and that's the funny part in all this chat. it's your poor attitude to the game, which is ultimately at fault here.eve is what it has always been. i find it amazing that someone starts playing the game, then complains about it's rules later. rather like complaining about how another player out manoeuvred you in chess. then saying you want the game rules changed to favour you instead.this sentence alone, only goes to highlight your issue. you take this way too personally, instead of looking for ways to beat other players of the game.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"i've made a conscious decision to see major wardec groups that declare wars on other groups and actually fight, different from the small groups that wardec as many people as they can, yet run into a station the second opposition comes up. you want to fight a wardec? be a man and stand your ground when the defenders do bring a fleet to fight you.it's these risk averse groups wardeccing people but hiding when they are seeing any form of opposition, that make the whole system feel weird. it's these people who simply do it to annoy others, that get people riled up against it. is it a legal and acceptable method? oh yes. but does that mean i have to find it a respectable activity? no, not at all. as for you, kaarous aldurald, i like how you blissfully ignore suggestions that could be discussed while sticking to the points you want to pick apart, simply based on a different perspective. i gave a solution in my last post that might be an interesting dynamic to not only give defenders means to act back, but also to make a war declaration more meaningful. since you ignored it, i will quote it for you again, just so that you don't need to search. i am definitely not the perfect player, i do not live in highsec at all, but i do feel that it's not a good thing to force people to either fight (which is good), or disband the corp/logoff for a week. that will only force people into larger and established groups, leading to stagnation in the long run. look at 0.0 and how four large groups dominate the scene with any resistance squashed before anything can happen.also:if we do not question mechanics occasionally to discuss it and keep the way open for progress, you will stagnate. we will not get a perfect system, and no one is 100% safe. awesome! but in the end, we are well within our right to question the systems in place and think of ways to improve it for all parties. not just the one that has the power.edit:from an earlier comment.the underlines comments are my problems with the way wardecs work these days. it's not about people getting wardecced, but about the way people go about it. each time you bring this argument up, the wardec players begin to scream and yell how eve should be a sandbox. yes, it should be. but eve isn't about you being a special snowflake. if you fight when you wardec against defending fleets, props to you and i have nothing against you. if you dock up when the defenders show up, you've lost my respect and will be marked a hypocrit."
"wardec them back. jesus christ, do i have to spell out everything for you? you already have what you think you're asking for, you just can't see through your bullshit narrative to figure it out.literally every single post you have made in this thread is based in total ignorance of the reality of the war mechanic."
"he doesn't even have to wardec the aggressor... he just has to make the war \"mutual.\" this cancels out any war fees and \"locks\" both sides into the war until one or the other \"surrenders.\"yeah... the defender has lots of options at his/her disposal. the trick is actually using them and not being so stuck in personal principles or ethics (which shouldn't have been brought into the game in the first place... because it's a game... and games don't care about you feel about a mechanic... it simply \"is\" and you either use it or you don't)."
"mutual can work with that, yes. his statement was after the aggressing corp had dropped the war, however. but yeah. people need to quit handcuffing themselves, then insisting that other people be handcuffed along with them to be \"fair\"."
"i'd love to have a cargo scanner spoofer - add nonexistent 20 plex to cargo scanner results, in addition to the 1 trit in my cargo."
"thank you for your support. i have not received a lot of positive feedback and most of my friends have quit during the time that i was forced to take a break.i have been feeling very negative toward eve lately, feeling that all the \"good\" ones have gone and it is only the ones that want the game dumbed down more and kills made easier who are left.please, as ever, tell others to vote. i am relying on word of mouth. even if they vote for others; more votes means more of the majority will be represented."
"well i have voted for you... well you looked very sexly i sort of voted for all the girls but i think you the was the best looking."
"i imagine these campaigns can get nasty sometimes, just like rl politics.i am here if you ever needed to talk."
"thanks. don't look at my av in 3d view. thank you. this has contributed but it is more general and game wide."
"the unfortunate fact is that it was not necessary to troll your thread. you were asked legitimate questions and completely failed to answer them adequately.the reasons i asked questions was honest curiosity after the name-scratch incident; i wanted to know if perhaps there was something legitimate you had to say about the game that people felt threatened by. against my better judgement i put you to the scrutiny of critical thinking and i am sorry to say you were found wanting - and not just a little bit; you were badly wanting.to your credit you did make some effort to refine what you had to say initially, but that rapidly petered out and i quickly found you a) were unable to explain why the problems you wanted to solve were actually problems, much less needed solving urgently b) what other merits you might have - your sole answer was \"i'll do what needs doing\" which is at best tautological and at worst an admission of total incompetence by virtue of not having the foggiest idea what might need doing and c) eventually ceased responding altogether except for continued attempts to get people to quit \"trolling your thread\".if you run again next year, i will ask similar questions only because of the faint hope i have that you might learn and improve - i am always pleasantly surprised when someone recognizes flaws in their position and behavior and revises them, and it inspires me to know that this does happen occasionally. i am not optimistic in your case however, because a) it's a rarity that people can critically examine themselves and b) you seem to have startling misconceptions about the process you are engaging in that you would need to address before you could remedy your platform.first, elections necessarily involve the candidate getting subjected to attacks and criticism - \"trolling\" and part of the test of a candidate is how they respond to this. asking people politely to please stop (your tactic) is somewhat better than taking the bait and ranting at them while frothing at the mouth, but it creates the appearance that you are afraid of their questions and are trying to dodge them - because the best troll will add a healthy dose of legitimate question to their trolling. they are just as capable of being polite as you are, and they mostly were. the ultimate effect was that you came across like erotica 1 trying to pretend to be polite and professional while scamming the **** out of someone. disregarding the legitimacy or lack thereof of his/her behavior, the fact is that this tactic might work when trying to troll someone else, but it doesn't work very well when you are trying to get someone else to vote for you. you do not have the leverage on these people that erotica 1 did in the bonus room, and i daresay it is unwise to come across that way to people you want to vote for you. in other words, your veneer of politeness came across as insincere and a smoke screen for an inability to address inherent flaws in your ideas.second, the ideas themselves. the csm is an advisory council, in a video game, and one where underhanded behavior is expected, if not entirely the point of playing. the problems you cited would be a serious issue in a real election; they are not in this one. in fact, they might not be problems at all, and trying to \"fix\" them could actually irreversibly damage player interest in the process.excessive control by nullsec blocks (and for that matter, the influence of carebears and other boogeymen) is really not a problem - while some csm members may be drama queens, foolish, silly, unresponsive, or lacking in perspective, for the most part being even-handed, articulate, and intelligent is necessary to get elected and ultimately the csm does not want to give advice, nor does ccp want to take it, if it destroys the entertainment medium we all enjoy. trying to push a video game ideology at the expense of the game's continued commerical success is simply never going to be a viable path, and so therefore running against that is tilting at windmills.furthermore, some of the problems, like \"buying accounts to stuff the ballot box\" are so impractical on the face of it that trying to \"fix\" them seriously calls into question your grip on practicality. the csm, again, has no actual power. vote-buying of the quantity needed to significantly influence the election would never be economically practical. you are unlikely to convince people to vote for you to put a stop to behavior that is unlikely to occur in the first place. the same thing with term limits - while there are occasional people with more than 2 terms, the lack of pay, time invested, and effort of being a csm mean the vast majority of people have had enough after 1 or 2 terms.in summary, your problems amount to that you treat this election like it's a real election in areas where it's inappropriate to do so (concern over corruption that isn't actually a problem in this context) and don't treat it like one where you should (you try to shut people up, when people never respond to that well in a candidate. people remain people regardless of the context). you seem to basically have the entire thing 180 degrees out of line.this went on rather longer than i intended, but again, everything is quite sincere. i don't really expect you to seriously consider this, but if you do, and give your candidacy an overhaul you might actually convince people to vote for you if only because you will have demonstrated open-mindedness and willingness to learn from mistakes."
"i communicate very effectively....said the person who hasn't made it clear to a single person what they want to change and when asked, refuses to give a clear answer."
"this isn't that difficult. if you are not trolling and actually want to know the answers to the questions these upstanding forum posters have been posting than read the first post of the thread.as a tactic, constantly asking the same already answered questions is ineffectual. you just come off as desperate when doing it."
"those answers only created more questions, which you didn't address in a satisfactory manner.as for being desperate, you're the one competing for votes with however-many other people. why would anyone be desperate in talking to you? your candidacy has never been in a particularly strong position."
"i hope you like crow."
"mm.. yellow."
"stop being a yeela belly chicken :)"
"i think you're misunderstanding. you are the candidate; you need the votes. it might make sense to say another candidate is desperate if you are in a strong position relative to them, but it does not make sense to say this to people that are not running. what would any of us have to be desperate about? as for the other candidates, there are enough that are in a strong position relative to you that ypur chances seem weak. it's possible you'll win, but it seems unlikely. i don't know why \"crow\" would have anything to do with a simple assessment of probability.if you think you're in a strong position about where do you expect to finish? do you expect to beat... manfred sideous, for example? sugar kyle?"
"forgive me for asking, but what is your educational/work background?you seem to approach the subject from a professional point (or at minimum well-informed layman with a good sense for analysis), which is refreshing.myself, i study political science and have a broad background in volunteering for, organising or managing election campaigns.of course, discussing xenurias campaign is mostly just fun and giggles for me, but the csm campaign in general is interesting partly because i get to watch candidates interact with and react to voters and issues with nothing on the line myself."
"ya know, originally poking fun at xenuria was amusing as all hell, but the mroe i thought about it, i have tried offering legitimate advice along with several others about how xen could improve his communication and public standing within the game, to actually stand a chance of winning for reals.and we were called trolls.its like, he insult the people who only offer good advice, so obviously even he doesnt care about winning anymoreits just kinda sad."
"you have my mining laser!erm ... i mean vote."
"voted for vaari, glory to amarr"
"lord vaari, may your quest to watch over the holy scriptures be blessed in the eyes of the empress jamyl i and her children.in which i pledge my support"
"i support this product and/or service.the csm needs the exalted leadership of lord vaari in these testing times."
"after the 10k+ wars we have had the last 2-3 years, i never expected so much support for my csm campaign. good to see many players can see the difference between an eve role playing evil war lord and a motivated csm candidate who wants best for eve.thanks for all support so far !"
"rather than remove them outright, what if the faction police corporations were player-driven corporations similar to faction warfare. the only thing responding to low sec status players entering high sec space would be high sec status players. remove the faction police ai completely. if the new player police force guard the gates well they are safe, if they don't chaos ensues. high sec would have to become its own police force.as an incentive, give the faction police a rewards system similar to faction warfare, unique items only purchased through their loyalty points store. the federation navy comet, it's got the police lights already."
"sounds fun. if this would be implemented, its something i would join with my own alliance."
"not to **** up your campaign thread with talk about hyperboxing, but i just want to make clear that the only person on the open comms show espousing the straw man arguments that the advantages derived from plex conversion to isk, having multiple accounts, or the use of third party websites for information purposes are equivalent to the use of a third party software to enhance the speed at which you can create inputs into the game, was a guest: shadowandlight. he was a guest because we were discussing the email he sent to all csm candidates which conflated all forms of multiboxing with his steroid-enhanced form of multiboxing, and falsely made the case that ccp may be trying to get rid of multiple accounts altogether. so just so we're clear, that was not the voice of the show, just a voice on the show. the voice of the show is pro-eula and pro-equal and clear enforcement of the eula. actions contrary to the word and spirit of the eula are in fact cheating."
"100% true. to bad we cant discuss the eula here"
"so should users of elinor be banned too? that automatically pulls data from exports and pops trade prices into your clipboard for you, thus speeding up your inputs considerably. you want the eula to be enforced fairly, so why does third party software only count as speeding up gameplay when it affects clicking on multiple buttons at the same time. most traders would grind to a halt if you took away even half of their third party tools, so how is that not speeding up their inputs? practically everything the igb does is designed to allow you to speed up input."
"apologies, i really don't want to derail tora's campaign thread. i just wanted to be clear that it wasn't the view of the open comms show that any of these comparisons and word parsing of the term \"unfair advantage\" were from members of the show. they were the views of a player who equates any and all third-party softwares and applications to one another as equals. that somehow, if they confer any real or perceived advantage, then they are equal and thus all should be allowed or none should. as for my views on elinor, what you seem to be describing is a third party software that goes only so far as to populate your operating system's clipboard? the user must then paste that data into the actual game client on their own? something tells me that doesn't violate ccp's eula. however, if it (elinor) copied the data into memory and somehow pasted it into the client on its own accord, that is where it would probably become and issue. but even then, ccp could decide its doesn't reach a level of significance to warrant action. the debate over isboxer is not whether any and all advantages can or should be eliminated from having an effect on the game. although certain people would like to make that the argument because it creates such a morass as to confuse the entire issue in an attempt at delegitimizing it altogether. ccp is well within their rights to say this does and that doesn't, although i would prefer to understand their basis for that decision. based on what you described, i'd guess that elinor is fine, whereas input broadcasting is obviously not, and isboxer's vfx dashboard with a pixel-by-pixel recreation of elements of the client that then feeds directly into the client, is probably so questionable as to risk their accounts.ps - that'll be my last comment here, but i'd be happy to discuss it elsewhere. again, this is his campaign thread."
"i don't mind guys. the more discussion, the better view we have on the matter."
"you need a gang to game this mechanic, six corpies should do it. use eve meetup, make sure that bam is hosting. in turn hang away from the group, dictating range is key, to split bam from the blob. he'll escort you to the bar and then you buy him a drink, this is vital, then hand off to another corpie and repeat: result bam off his face!vote bam ;)"
"you've just made me realise that i've fallen victim to this tactic several times. now i know what to watch out for! :peve down under - a community for players in the autz"
"i can confirm he will bend an ear to whatever you have to saypoked him in regards to what is actually a niche problem, as in fighter assist mechanics/meta ("
"2 accounts from me, like the last time.even if i wanted to vote for some other candidate this time, the vote matching tool again presented corbexx as the highest match. best of luck in the elections"
"+1 for boratworking with him at chao3, i can attest that he is a hard worker, and very passionate about the game. he would be a great independent csm representative."
"you get one of my votes, again.i am not a hisec resident but i like what you are doing. hope you continue doing it!"
"vote match says 40%, still voting. we need level headed, informed, active and helpful folks who aren't part of the 0.0 lol blocks."
"here it is, i know you were waiting!"
"i'm going to vote for you, also i'm happy to offer free training to you on the spell check features of your browser and modern word processors."
"hi sugar, i'm glad to see you running for reelection - few people have worked harder in the role than you have.you skipped a couple of questions on vote match, both of which were of interest to me so i'd really like to hear your views.the two subjects were whether eve's mechanics should be changed to strongly encourage the breakup of 0.0 powerblocks, and whether off grid links should be removed from the game.if it's possible for you to update your vote match answers it'd obviously be a big help to people like me who're using the tool to sort through the 75 candidates!"
"hey there. it seems that three of my questions did not save. thank you for the catch. i did votematch over a few days. i<U+FFFD>ve filled them in.i do not want mechanics aimed at breaking up 0.0 power blocks. i want mechanics aimed at allowing different groups of different sizes with different reasons the ability to gain sov. right now we have a minimum mass that you have to reach and that minimum is very, very large. i want more dynamic mechanics where dedicated and intelligent people can do something with themselves. the reason i separate that from mechanics aimed at breaking up power blocks is because i think building better general game mechanics is the answer not game mechanics with an aim to fix a singular problem.off grid boosting: this topic has been around for the three years that i have been playing. i<U+FFFD>ve reached the point where i don<U+FFFD>t want off grid or on grid boosts i want a rework of the system. i do not know what that looks like at this time but after sitting and talking with people, watching fights, reading battle reports, looking at ships with and without boosts i don<U+FFFD>t think this is an on grid or off grid topic anymore. i don<U+FFFD>t like what off grid boosts do to people and do to fights. yes you can hunt down link alts. yes they have been moved from pos. but they still hug gates and stations or sit out deep in dead space. but they also let people take fights they wouldn't take as well and push their limits. then we have people who don't use boosters and are successful.on the flip side, if we move them into being on grid we give people another reason to increase their fleet size and then we give that naturally larger fleet an automatic force multiplier. because they are on grid the smaller fleet/solo has less of a chance of having the booster with them, they lose their options when it comes to fleet comps, or they simply lose having boosts altogether. i don<U+FFFD>t want to encourage groups to have another reason to grow in size and then add an extra cookie to them for it."
"<3copy/pasteyou ( gorski ) have 2 my votes and many 3 use them smart regardlee"
"thanks for the support and the votes!"
"that's like calling an white australian cop racist coz a white american cop beat up a black guy. just because they look the same, wear the same clothes and do the same job doesn't mean they're the same. everyone has an individual personality, maybe you should give them a chance? or maybe just keep calling people out as racists because that's a lot of easier than providing legitimate reasons to dislike them bobmon for csm"
"do you have a link? i'm curious to see how bad this is.either way, not voting for bobman or anyone else dragging their blocs agenda around trying to get on the csm. i want to actual healthy change."
"remember, the csm is a representative body, there to represent the player base, provide feedback regarding upcoming patches, and to be a sounding board/sanity check for developers. though i have stated specific things i would like to see, it was more in response to questions and to provide a flavor as to my thoughts on the game and ilustrate my experience.however, i would like to stress that i am running on both my ingame experience and my real life change management and training management experience. reading through prior year in reviews, the csm can be a thorn in the side to ignore or a useful partner to developers in terms of better understanding the game from a different perspective. i believe my background will provide insight and benefit to those developing the game we love, and it is my ability to bring unbiased assessment and change impact feedback on both gameplay and player quality of life.a vote for me is a vote for focused meaningful quality change where quality of life, and actual fun are the primary drivers to motivation and action."
"that post alone is worth second on my ballot. even our shared contempt from the jump changes pales to this."
"you came out on top in my eve vote match. so, you have my support. and ironically, even though you are part of a large coalition, your loyalty base is rather small in comparison to others.hope you manage to gain a place at the table, in what otherwise is a high school popularity contest of people sanctioned by their large cliques."
"+1tienes mi voto compatriota."
"your support is very appreciated and i will not let you down. nothing makes me happier then to have support of our members. i am going to work very hard and be extremely active. i want everyone to be able to use me as their voice. i want to know new concerns and create new places to hear these ideas and concerns."
"your blog pretty much sums it up. got my votes! vote gorski!"
"you have 2 my votes and many 3 use them smart regardlee"
"your ad"
"hi ryani've been told you are supportive of multiboxingcould you respond either privately or publicly (your choice) to these questions?"
"yes i do support multiboxing.however, the broken part of multiboxing is overuse of combat.if you want a mining fleet, you should be able to jetcan, assist drones, dock/undock without worrying about a ban.but doing bombing runs (or any other pvp) or breaking the economy running incursions should be not allowed when using is boxer, everything else i think is fine."
"ryan:don't you realize that using multiboxing for a mining fleet is breaking the economy as much, if not more, than running incursions? what is the difference between using multiboxing to run incursions and using multiboxing to run mining fleets?-- alan mathison, explorer & industrialist, star tide industries"
"the difference is that the mining fleet will still be able to mine with or without broadcasting, just makes it easier to be able to jetcan and move around with broadcasting.however, it is nearly impossible to run an incursion fleet without is boxer and the features it comes with.also, the incursion boxers can bring in 1b/hour or more, whereas the miners can only bring in 1/4th that with the same plex responsibilities.let's not get hung up over one point though. there's plenty more to eve."
"hello xander.can you please give me your opinion/answer on the following topics?1) destructible clothing. ( pod gets popped, your monocle, jack boots and ccp certified panties get atomized.)this has been discussed in the forums, and would make a decent isk sink, and industry sideline for p.i products.2) smuggling. the current state of it is, to say lightly, ******. what is the point of having contraband when it's a lottery run by customs officials to haul it to other destinations? do you think this will ever be on a small changes agenda?3) bounty hunting. a potentially huge and exciting activity for new players and bitter vets alike. broken beyond repair, is there any indication that ccp might address this in the near future?i understand that smaller improvements get the back burner before major issues like sov, pos overhauls, and nplayer experience, but surly there is an argument to revisit poorly build or broken features (number 1 and 2 ) sooner than later?are these anything you would consider bringing to the table if re-electedthank you for your time.dan seaveyhoney never sleeps. - john russell"
"here is your ad"
"seeing as we seem to agree on many things and disagree only on some fine points of detail, you get my vote. hope to see you round syndicate for some time to come!"
"your ad"
"yes please!also, please add this to your consideration."
"the list of candidates i support is not 14 long, so i thought, what the hell, let me see what eve-match comes up with to read into some others and see who else to select.i was little disturbed by some of the candidate results but i was relieved to find myself at the top with a 90% match (i guess i am not compley crazy, only 10% argues with myself) hush you! jealous the voices only talk to me! after that:sort dragon - 82%nervon - 73%june ting - 72%gorski car - 71%borat guereen - 70%suzy rc mudstone - 69%aeon boirelle - 68%domanark - 67%the ones i officially support in my thread:corbexx - 59%sugar kyle - 54%lorelei ierendi - 44%mike azariah - 43%corebloodbrothers - 34%sion kumitomo - does not appear (confident that goons will give him all the votes he needs?) i do not take the site too seriously, there are many limitations with such surveys. please reply in a light hearted way."
"you are referencing 200 man carrier blobs. if sentry fire from these is too coordinated for a 200 man battleship gang, it's not the mechanics that are the problem, it's the pilots and target calling. 200 maelstroms can alpha a 2 million ehp target. 40 moros can volley a 2 million ehp target. 30 naglfars can blap a 2.1 million ehp target. and if you are suggesting that you don't have the pilots to field 40+ dreads against 200 carriers? you need your head examined. 200 anything will destroy 40 or less of the same weight class, cap vs cap, cruiser vs cruiser, etc. also, who fights a 200 carrier blob with just battleships? one battleship does not equate one carrier in k-space. fighting a 200 carrier blob? bring 200 carriers. as far as ospreys, no. with your plan a single nidhoggur will rep for half the amount a 4 large shield rep osprey (12.5% per level) will, with capital reps, for half the range. which means that a 10 million isk cruiser is more valuable for structures than the ships made to rep structures. currently, a nidhoggur, without triage can output 2065 shield per second and remain stable. an osprey can do just shy of 500 and needs a lot of sacrifices to be cap stable and fit 4 large reps. gutting the non triaged reps will prevent any small groups from being able to rep their structures in a reasonable length of time. did you scale down your concept at all? did you think of the 20 man fleets? the corporations with less than 50 players?the problem is, you are confusing scale with mechanics. yes, at 200+ numbers, carriers are extremely powerful and hard to beat. you need to examine why this is. with 200 pilots, even the nidhoggur of the prior example, can spider tank with the gutted reps. 384 shield/s across 200 ships? more than enough to make a difference that you will not appreciate."
"i am a capsuleer. many are like me, we all are eternal. assets are replaceable, and i will live on. be the change you want to see. snuff the flame that burns, take action shroud it as reaction. the only method an enemy has to crush your spirit is for you to fail in your own efforts to overcome a threat. nobody in new eden is invincible, and nothing is safe. i get podded a lot, and i miss the days where you lose sp from not upgrading your clone already. that possibility was great for bringing a fight to more skill adapt players. skill for skill you had the chance to even the score. now, because of the weak, the game play has been diluted to the level that once someone has more skills than you they always will. that to me is not a fixed game mechanic, that is a broken and flawed system set in place to appease the spineless. i've lost months of sp and never lost sight of the joy the future can hold. stop diluting our game play, i enjoy a challenge and i value these type of options. even being on the receiving end of all the griefer dec crap. i enjoy the fact that this is an integral part of the game, it grants me the option to do something about it. it takes whits, drive, determination, and pure undiscriminating grit. stop trying so hard to get rich, do what you need to be wealthy. the rewards will come poring in, reap the benefits of the friendships that last. those are the ones that matter when real battle begins. the saying isn't \"don't fly it if you can't afford to lose it\" for no reason.most importantly. nothing ever goes exactly as planned. if you look into my timeline, everything has happened for a reason. that reason is i allowed it to happen, thus i have no regrets. any thing that happens to any of us is for that same inherent reason. that is eve online, that is the sandbox factor. it molds us into who we are on this game. turn it into content, and never ever give up. just stop being a slave, start being a capsuleer and nothing will be impossible. these minute obstacles will become an advantage to gain leverage from as you learn to overcome."
"oh, this is so getting linked in my signature. perfectly stated."
"when you break down all the stats into effect, mackinaws, covetors and retrievers are really shocking paper bags."
"isn't any mining vessel a paper bag outside of hisec?it is midday and i am feeling sleepy for some reason.."
"skiffs have the right sort of tank done right that in many instance help can warp to you before you pop. however, there is a big fat price tag on those.so, your one and only real option when reds are around is procurers, mine for an hour or two in that and it has paid for itself.the thing i am saying is that a retriever has 30% of the procurers tank (time to live) with 96% of the yield. so, it is an utterly useless ship except for afk mining (for the cargo hold), where you do not care about your losses."
"hi. i fell asleep earlier. what a strange thing..yield isn't everything. besides being blown up, travel time reduces your isk/hr significantly. rettys have a superior ore hold.around reds no amount of tank is going to help if you get scrammed. as far as warping out of grid goes, you should already be aligned. an untanked, always-aligned retty has been my goto ninja ice miner. i pick systems with an empty local, but i don't bother leaving if someone comes in.adding more tank to the retty is like piling on lingerie in the arctic. i honestly would prefer the ore hold stay as it is.."
"only if you are solo.i think the scaling on the ships are all wrong. i would like to see :tank go up:procurer --> covetorskiff ---> hulkore hold go down:procurer (at retriever levels) --> covetorskiff (at mackinaw levels) --> hulkore hold go up:barge --> exhumeralign time go down:procurer --> covetorskiff ---> hulkbarge --> exhumeracceleration to warp go down:procurer --> covetorskiff ---> hulkbarge --> exhumeryield go up:procurer --> covetorskiff ---> hulkbarge --> exhumerthis would make procurers cheap, nimble ships that are reasonable (mostly as they are now)while hulks would have a decent yield to be worth the risk, large tanks but slow, so they would need support. anyone solo mining in one would be a fool..... and yes, this if you haven't seen it."
"had a hilarious mail of support from an old alliance mate.my old alliance got spread pretty thin. we keep jump dream to dream too fast. i warned the leader at the time about this, it become a flaming argument, with most of them against me, so i left.fast forward and the alliance has imploded almost exactly as predicted.i got a message basically saying that he voted for me in the hopes that i attack the other csm members and it lands up on youtube. (might be too much of an inside joke) >.>"
"this is exactly the way my old alliance used them on those occasions when we'd mine in our wormhole: easy for anyone to fly, and so cheap that nobody cared if they popped. we had a big stack of them packaged in the pos.the cloud of small drones that even a small group of retrievers could muster was a decent disincentive, too: you might pop one barge before getting swarmed, but if you're in a tin-can cloaky ship, good luck once they get to you. and yeah, sure, there are counters, but again, we didn't care, and nobody ever bothered to bring a hard counter because that's a lot of effort to take down a few disposable ships.in the year or so we were in the wh we might have lost two? three? but you also have to factor in that we hardly ever mined."
"ventures are cheaper"
"i wonder what his ideas are on being a joke candidate every time he runs."
"my educational background is in psychology, not political science and i'm certainly not involved with politics or elections professionally. however, i do quite a bit of analysis in my work and a lot of it is driven by political realities.i'd say i'm basically a layman as far as political science goes, but as you say well-informed and good at analysis in general. what i've found is that many people go about problem solving essentially backwards - they come up with a solution that fits their ideas of what a good solution looks like and then try to fit it to the problem. this is a perfect example. he wants to get elected and so far can't, so he invents a solution of combating corruption and then looks for a problem for it to solve. you can see this because he shuts down when it's pointed out that he has not identified an actual problem.the real problem xenuria seems to face is that xenuria isn't on the csm, but he doesn't want to admit that, probably even to himself. however, it's pretty transparent because he doesn't know what to do once he's on it other than try to change the selection process.i was completely serious about being curious to hear from him following the name scratching; i felt it was not fair to continue to hold opinions based on other people's accusations. i think the community is mistaken; he is not actually a troll. he simply does not truly understand the nature of the csm."
"so what you are saying is he is incompetent and those a terrible csm candidate."
"yes. however it's not an incpetence that couldn't be fixed if he really wanted to. unfortunately that would involve making some choices between adopting much more realstic ideas and thinking habits and maintaining his viewpoints and ideals. i suspect that making those choices or even facing the necessity of them will be too hard. it's just much easier to dismiss people as trolls.inability to make that sort of choice renders many people incompetent in many areas. his incompetence is not unique, and not a result ( as far as i can tell) of stupidity. its a simple and very common overcommitment to excessively simplistic ideals. lots of people do this because they dont want to be \"sellouts\". the other side of that is that idealists often render themselves ineffective, irrelevant, and therefore incompetent because reality is simply too complex or too far removed from their ideals to permit them to function."
"it's sad that most people posting here have posted more than xenuria has especially with several people offering him help."
"is this an example of irony?when the cfc-people are so upright, honest and helpful, you'd much prefer them to the anti-cfc candidate.kiryen o'bannon i think you hit the head of the nail withpersonally, i think the solution is some personal growth on his part, but until then, i'll enjoy his csm campaigns."
"i think hearts would be aflutter for xenuria, if he just caved and did a remake of this video...give the people what they want xenuria.f"
"\"a vote for xenuria is vote made in protest of the state of the game.\" if this year's campaign is not successful then a change of message gathering votes from those who simply want to punish ccp could be an effective platform. going darkside."
"<U+266A><U+10E6><U+266A>*<U+FFFD>.<U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD>,<U+FFFD><U+FFFD> <U+01B9><U+04DD><U+FFFD> x e n u r i a 4 c s m <U+01B9><U+04DD><U+FFFD> <U+FFFD>,<U+FFFD><U+FFFD>,<U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+266A><U+10E6><U+266A>*<U+FFFD>.<U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD>."
"thank you! i will take what i can get! :)"
"lucas wrote a nice blog about the above :"
"o/ hey tora i tossed my vote for you in the hat. hope you can do good there. don't let us down or i'll sick my own fedo on you. =p#deletetheweak"
"i sincerely hope that the changes to skynet announced today in the o7 show indicate a design shift from ccp to bring assets participating to a combat on-grid.if this is indeed the case, then the next target should be off-grid links."
"and you were instrumental in a dismal failure to organise creative content for players against incursions."
"if i had known how busy i would be irl at that time, i would never have initiated that event. real life can surprise you at any time."
"haha yeah thnx for the votes, om big things and articles i try hard, but on quick replies being dyslestic sucks, and not caring also lol, but thnx for offer and votes ofc, i ll need every single vote as voting is high this year it seems, 13 k in first 12 h according too ccp, so vote wnd then tell your frends and spamm the system u in hehe"
"+1 from me!you are one of the best guys i know. kind and helpful.. sometimes very angry and i like your humor i think you will be a great addition to csm.i wish you the best of luck!"
"+1good luck, mate!"
"here it is, finally."
"but do we move to empty unclaimed space or to someone else's degrading space?"
"here is your ad."
"thanks so much! looks great!"
"1.0"
"yeeehhhaaa, nice dude, you are my manmuch appreciated.bring the old rapid light missile launcher back to. 10 sec reload and an ammocapacity of 70 shots with the old stats.ishtar is ok, at its current state.and bring back the old wormhole mechanic, ore sites needed to be scanned, buff the sleepers, remove nullsec scansites from wh-spacecarry on with the good workbest regardsjarano o7"
"thanks for the warm wishes. please do remember that vote match is a good *starting* place. read the candidate information of your top dozen matches and then come up with your own ordering based on interviews, blogger reviews, etc."
"what about local name delay / show only number of pilots?"
"+1 from each my account :)"
"we clamor for change in real life politics.but we accept and mold our own universe in that very same abomination.we should reject all fluffy candidates lying about who they are to get what they want.ok not lying but certainly not telling us about that off-shore account.we want this in real life and still quietly settle for the same song and dance here- in our universe.i am pro everything that is legal today in new eden.some aspects need tweaking for fairness and future economic and civilian growth.i am not running for anything.but i am the peoples champ.(self appointed)tell me your dirty secrets of past endeavors and exploits.we all truly do aspire to them.that's why we play.for the damn anarchy and to escape the oppressive governments of the world.to be ourselves. and sometimes other people.\"if you hate something don't you do it too\"...?reveal your true selves!with exception to current operations."
"you will note a distinct lack of miner and industrial kills on my killboard.then i have a post history, i would be a fool to keep asking for a more even game if i was going to be upset by those changes being implemented."
"i read your page of ten.i don't have much experience with many eve endeavors but i read about all things eve.and them poor newbie miners.we laugh proudly at killing them 4 day old ventures, but an underline of guilt i feel is there as well.miners do need more protection.especially with these suicidal game mechanics from 5 year players with billions of isk at their disposal.the game is old and must evolve with time.+1 jenshae"
"strangely enough, people manage to do incursions with other players.how do you propose to bring about all those changes you list in your original post?"
"you can downvote a candidate by filling the lower slots of your ballot up with folks who have no chance of winning. you can think of it as a perot effect."
"more ore out put! mex sucks in 0.0 have to ship it in to build anything."
"part of what keeps highsec much more 'profitable' is how the range on raw materials has been set. i can, with time and some luck, get most of what this character needs for his industry ocd without going under a 0.5 rating. perhaps seeing that space in the 0.6-0.4 as an amorphous mid-sec could change things just a tad for either end by placing more of those raw materials there. it draws the highsec only toons into the grey zones, while those that live more full-time in low and null have a slightly better access to the possible profits to be made. then it goes to the risk vs. rewards on both ends of the security spectrum ratings. how lucky/defended/offensive do i feel tonight, huh punk?a second character of mine is the founder and ceo of a very small currently highsec based corp. that combined with a little time with both a highsec and lowsec corp are my training grounds for learning for what at least doesn't work for me and a few others in a player run corp. there's a few reasons i haven't followed any promptings to pull jeven out of the npc corp. number one with a bullet would be moving all of his crap again! whugh, that was pricy to blackfrog his hamster hoard before, it would be a higher bill to move it now! it's one of those things, i have a better idea what i'm looking for in a corp and i'm not too fond of signing on with any crew without having more than a vague idea what i'll be facing in other players' personalities, the management style of leadership, locations, and overall goals from the short/medium/long terms, activity levels, etc.entitled to isolation to run a pve corp without risk... got to give that one a big fat no vote. that was one thing i didn't think existed when i joined. the only thing i consider myself 'entitled' to in eve is a client that gets more of the bugs fixed before the next mini-expansion is launched. ccp, did you read that line? i'm paying to play, so pleeeeze, fixie more than you break. (and quit trying to make my skull esploode from all the updated shiny graphics unless you plan to pay for my prescription pain killers and new glasses) if i want isolation while playing a game, then it's time to fire up the ps3 and spend more time on the save file for ffvii. that's pretty play game isolated, i play eve for some socialization along with spaceship build and break fun times.>jeven"
"in the \"don't care if i lose it\" space, i think retty's are good for ice and the ventures for gas."
"... but it has two lasers! it must be better! like those battle ships! they are bigger and must be stronger! hold on while i fill one with t1 modules.point being counter intuitive designs and newbie traps."
"all of ours were fitted for the more profitable job of sucking gas."
"what!? how dare you not use a prospect! did you miss my decree that these must be used for gas and worm holes?!"
"you got our votes jen, right next to corbexx across all my accounts.good luck and thank you for raising your hand, regardless of the result. keeping limbs crossed for you!<ed><U+00A0><U+00BC><ed><U+00BD><U+008C>
"
"much appreciated! which type of sun are you using for that sun tanning? (referencing a silly out of pod post)"
"hard to use a ship that doesn't exist yet. besides, we fit ours with surprise tackle, because it's fun to turn the tables on people. but that means that a fair number of them blew up."
"i voted for him cuz trolz"
"csm campaign writeups should be carefully vetted against (grossly) incorrect statements about current game mechanics.your understanding is not correct here. you should be better aware of the rules that affect you."
"and of course, this was already handled about two posts after the one you are quoting.but thank you for reading, anyway!"
"thanks ! save the fedos !"
"borat guereen, why do you refuse to take a public stance for or against the new order way in high sec?here you are quoted as saying you won't take stance on high sec ganking but you did say you are your corp will donate money to fight against it. kinda flip flopping, are you for high sec ganks or against?? seems to be a good public topic that could sway a voter either way so i would like to know for sure."
"here is the message i sent to them (the representant of the groip calling themselves heroes of high sec), after they asked me to post on their site.\"as a candidate of csm x, i will not take a public stance to a role playing approach of a problem. i do applaud your efforts, and will pass the words to eve talaminada, the co-founder of chao3, to contribute to your cause and take a public stance on it on behalf of chao3.i will be happy to discuss more about the game design and possible issues with high sec publicly on separate threads. if you want to ask any question to hat effect, please use my campaign thread at"
"this idea is totally half baked. first, 'anonymity' isn't a problem. it's a core feature. besides, the changes that you have proposed would fail to do what you suggest they would do. many, many players use multiple accounts. showing other players which characters exist on the same account wouldn't \"give everyone a clear view of the persons behind this new group\" at all. unless, of course, you are proposing that we should know everybody's alts all of their accounts?it's a bad idea and i didn't vote for you."
"knowing everybody alts from all their accounts is exactly what i am proposing, and doing it by a simple change of eula.i am glad to see you post here as an anonymous alt too, real recent one too...like me, you illustrate pretty well the problem of current anonymity for all alts in new eden. you could be anyone already well known in the community...unlike me, though, you defend anonymity, where i publicly want ccp to remove it from the game. the fact that you consider it a core feature to your play style is notable.... but anonimity of alts favors players with a lot of resources in-game or/and out-of-game in the long run, and allows an impact on new eden that, unlike most other activities, does not fit into the risk versus reward model.i am campaigning so that each player is owned to their own standard of actions in games. the current system allows to be dr jekyll and mr hide, both at the same time, which again favors more fortunate players over the more casual and less well-to-do ones...."
"i know it would be tough, but if you use a browser such as firefox it will give you red squiggly lines that you can right click on and choose the correct spelling. its really easy best of luck for the vote, bring on all the apis!"
"god speed, sugar. looking forward to see you in csm 10epi"
"i don't know, as some space degrades, other regions improve i guess"
"getting your alliance leader on the csm.......wonderful.getting your harry saq on the csm......priceless!!!"
"here is your ad."
"thanks, bellak!"
"later than i wanted but at least i got it done."
"good luck ash, you will be a great csm member. and regarding endorsements, you may have missed one :)"
"quick update, canceling the 0.0 sov panel due to lack of interest. i think people are talked to death over that issue hehe. any sov/0.0 related issues are fair game at the town hall though.domanark will join in on the ccp/csm panel at 19:00."
"here is your ad, sorry it is late."
"thanks!i wrote some quick thoughts on the scytlla stuff just released:"
"thanks for the link. i hope you like the ad and good luck with your campaign."
