"you do not have enough :effort: points. 49/100.you require 50 :effort: points to preform such action.click here to buy more :effort: points."
"you haven't invented time travel yet?! opened a thread to discuss mining in general and low sec.tl;dr - \"dock or die\" vs \"stand and fight\" playstyles."
"from a hisec mining perspective, this would basically eliminate the skiff completely. as we've seen from both the big odyssey change and the smaller kronos revisit, hisec as a whole only cares about 1) tank and 2) yield, in that order. putting the hulk as the best in both those categories would make it the go-to any time there was a hauler around (not to mention opportunists either jetcan mining or mining into a freight container). agility and speed just rarely matter in hisec, because being surrounded by neutrals all the time makes it a lot harder to pre-emptively warp before threats land.outside of hisec, and into the realm of speculation, i suspect that rather than having procs/skiffs take a niche as ninja miners, they simply won't be used in favour of using better mining ships fitted with higgs rigs that are permanently aligned. align time/warp acceleration don't mean anything when you're always two clicks away from entering warp, especially when the non-proc/skiff ships bring both better tank and better yield to the party.finally, i'm not so sure that \"anyone solo mining in [a hulk] would be a fool\"; if i were a solo miner in nullsec i would definitely use your improved hulk, i'd simply use jetcans as an external ore bay rather than warping it back to station every few minutes. when a couple of cans are full, or when hostiles are reported in intel anywhere nearby, just park the hulk in a pos/station, grab a cloak+mwd miasmos and clear out the cans. you get the benefits of strong tank (vs the nullsec belt rats) and high yield and you mostly sidestep the issue of the small ore hold."
"what if the differences are as pronounced as between cruisers (proc & skiff), battle cruisers (mack & ret) and battle ships (cov & hulk)?"
"here is your ad"
"miners will pick the ships based on the differences they like and then structure their fleets to cover the differences they do not like.for example, they like more yield and they like more tank, so they pick cov/hulk almost exclusively. they do not like small ore holds or slow align, so they bypass them with fleet haulers and with higgs rigging and permanent align.but they're not going to trade off both tank and yield for ore hold or agility, not when there are alternatives."
"this would be the aim. procs and skiffs would be the best solo / ninja miners that is brilliant, going to try squeeze it in my bio and the op of this thread.now, did you stalk me or just felt inspired because i often say, \"i got lucky with this profile image just don't look at me in 3d\" makes it really funny!"
"i'm glad you enjoyed it. i had been thinking of doing that kind of video but hadn't yet. you just got lucky or unlucky, which ever way you see it."
"i am linking it in a url to people as, \"awesome (lewd videos) share it with your friends\""
"indeed. ironically, despite needing to get people to pay attention to you in order to get elected , a need for attention for attention's sake is counterproductive in that regard.i think there's a definite element of that here. in one respect at least, this thread has been an object lesson in \"how not to run a csm campaign.\""
"the planets are almost aligned.xenuria, dont fail me. you are the chosen one."
"voted x 2, i really hope this happens."
"even if i do support introducing some kind of fog of \"metagame\" war for kilboard data, by introducing a pilots' s data privacy option in-game ,i am fully behind the point of this article from rupert foulmouth"
"round table from declaration of war is on now... all candidates on the panel are there too!"
"well, i've now voted."
"i dare say you have not thought it through, but would find it amusing if we chase our tails running around space.hopefully we'll collapse from the sheer boredom and difficulty, and smaller, higher skilled and more elite entities will miraculously appear to fill in the power vacuum."
"thanks for all the great support so far."
"im hyped! can't wait to see the results!"
"wow! that is pretty awesome! thanks!"
"certainly not getting my vote!"
"nobody's making you vote for me. go cast an informed vote whether it be for me or someone else :)"
"looks like i'm driving to nyc on monday instead of sunday, so i can make the town hall."
"excellent june!the server password is now updated. candidates and audience feel free to join us on ts3 address: www.noirmercs.compassword: csmx"
"in lobby!"
"thanks for taking the time to set up this round table meeting. i had a great time and i hope those who listen are able to get a better feel for the candidates who have taken advantage of this opportunity.make sure you take the time to go out and vote; i would love for you to vote for me, but if not at least vote.domanarkclueless space nerds podcastdomanark co-host clueless space nerds podcast"
"in the lobby :)"
"just wanted to say thanks for taking the time to set this up, i know there is a metric ton of groundwork that goes into things like this. to top it all off, i had a great time violently agreeing with dominark"
"you are sure about that? last i checked there was a lot of grumbling from solo players and small corps. example here."
"this is why i play.if the only tool you have is a hammer, every problem looks like a nail. if you have a big enough hammer, every problem is a nail."
"itt: people who don't know how voting works but think they should talk about it anyway."
"i take offense at this post.dear babby jesus help us if people start getting confused in real-life when you're not able to 'downvote' in real elections."
"if people could opt out of pvp in low sec to some extent, people would move there and be willing to undock in something more than a combat ship with a fleet/most of pvp goeshighsec: is it a tank ship scan it> does it have value, yes, kill it before concord gets you does it have value, no, keep scanning targets doesn't have a tank> kill it just to kill it use an alt to scout a war target, it is something to solo or gang up on, yes, jump in warp to altlow sec: does it move >yes> kill itnull sec: is it red, yes> kill it is it neutral, yes> kill it is it blue, yes> kill it is it blue and large/expensive, yes> get others and kill itive been in pvp a lot, been shot at by blues, been ganked landing on station at 0 while waiting docking confirmation, had terrribad fc figure they can attack a t3 on a gate with 200 reds in system and no one would respond, been awoxed several times, seen others ganked after just undocking, most of the time going to low sec is greeted by smart bombs, going to null is greeted by bubbles, going to wormhole space is greeted by a fleet.if people actually cared about economy or fleets, people wouldn't be so quick on the trigger just for a kill maili'd like to see the vast support of alts go away myself as the usual mo is \"use an alt\" or \"train an alt\"we have alts for every from boosting and logi so some one can \"solo fight\" to massive amount of production rather its building, mining, or injecting massive amounts of isk via missions/ratting/incursions or what ever into the system.m the economy would be looking a lot better."
"unless ccp change ore belt/anom composition, or blueprint material list, you'll always be hauling trit/pye/mex to null in order to build... anything.ccp pushes nerfs and pretend to try to make null self sufficient, when the whole system is designed from 2003 to make it self insufficient. give ores belts the same composition as blueprint bill of material list, then scale yield per unit of ore from +1.0 sec to -1.0 sec like rats do (say, +5% yield per unit of sec), and suddenly you don't have to haul trit from highsec anymore.but that would make too much sense."
"where did they ever say they were making any area self sufficient? eve has a long history of nowhere being totally self sufficient."
"look through the blogs. i can't be bothered to find it for you, but it's among ones back during industry revamp."
"strange how long it takes to buy and set up some ships in another system. *sigh.* can you believe that some people actually play the game?"
"popcorn eating makes you so thirsty. drinks mountain dew"
"created several accounts to vote 30 days before this electionhope the votes help"
"xenuria at the risk of being labeled as a troll by yourself i do have some genuine questions/concerns about your campaign.first off is that your corp history is scary long, you seem to not be able to stay in a corp for longer than a month at any time which shows a history of instability which is not good for a csm campaigner. why is this the case and i'm curious as to how you feel you can be a stable and active csm member in light of this.another is that you seem to handle criticism extremely poorly and lash out by either calling people trolls or just pretending they don't exist which is also a bad thing for a member of a political party even if it is space politics, you will no doubt come under attack by members of the public who don't approve of your actions if you were to be elected and attacking them is only going to cause things to escalate further, you will also come under attack from other members of the csm both in public and behind closed doors and you need to be able to keep your cool and frankly i don't think you would be able to do so.the third is that you personally seem to have had a history of controversy surround you which has caused some animosity with people in the community. how do you see yourself overcoming this?you seem intent on becoming part of the csm and while i don't agree with your motivations i wouldn't actively want to try and harm a campaign but there are some serious concerns to be addressed."
"proper use of your money.no chance of waste.i hope you at least did it with plex and scammed money, so you didn't have to work for it yourself.everything else, you're using your money/time to vote for a candidate failing both compared to other candidates, and compared to no candidate at all, and in competition with voters who, at least for the null-sec vote - and in part for other areas with coherent, functioning groups -, is better organised, both internally and between groups, and have equivalents of party lists... in other words, you have to spend a lot to make any impact.but it gets worse!with your claim (and i gotta say, i doubt your honesty), you're doing exactly what xenuria wants to abolish as a possibility. you're using practises to elect a candidate who doesn't want anyone to get elected that way (except, i'd wager, that xenuria runs on the platform of \"xenuria in the csm; whatever it takes\", as kiryen o'bannon eloquently put it before). furthermore, when your attempt to buy the vote fails, it will be another example of why xenurias current platform is worthless and even when attempted, doesn't work for those without the proper means, and for those with the proper means, is unnecessary and a dumb expense.so, here's my prediction: your \"several accounts\" will make no difference, you should have bought a couple of hundred.you used them to vote for a failing candidate, who can't get elected in a fair election. furthermore, your method puts either your own understanding of the candidates' platform in question, or the degree to which your candidate truly believes in his own platform. furthermore, if you paid for these accounts from your own pocket, it seriously puts your sanity into question.effectively, you're paying for the privilege that, for a well-connected candidate in the cfc/n3/pl/etc, is a single ping away, and i'm willing to bet isk that a null-sec ping is more effective in terms of voters than the upper limit of how many accounts(accounts) you're economically and mentally able to produce.i hope you're counter-trolling, like i assume of aram, but if you're honest, i like this excellent example of the xenuria voter."
"dont forget to vote guys...."
"full endorsement for this great man, he does so much for eve-online and since he took over the community role at eve-bet i have been so completely astounded by how much he will do to support everyone and everything in our great community. an integral part of our team and the perfect candidate for csm. bam we are behind you.-eve-bet huntdirector of operations & staff"
"as i was scouring the interwebz, i found an endorsement i did not know about.... it was very sekrit indeed! thanks rixx javixx for putting me on your groot, and best luck for your application(s)!"
"you can find the podcast here. thanks to dow for the efforts, and especially the speed of the follow-up and posting of this..."
"all of my ballots have you at the top. i wish you luck in your campaign."
"what content have you organised for players?"
"i don't think you know what the word convenience means."
"i've spread the word wide, no less than 30 accounts have you at the top."
"+1 you've got my vote again core. as \"an almost\" 10 year player i've seen a lot of changes in and to the game. it's good to see other players step-up and dedicate the time, energy and talents to make the game as good as it's become. thanks for the commitm"
"i am not sure that you have justified just *why* this discourages conflict, just asserted it. but leaving that to one side: no.each time we moved space as an alliance we reckoned on losing between a quarter and a third of our membership. they didn't, in general, leave for other alliances. they just stopped logging in and we eventually had to kick them. their stuff was trapped in hostile space because they happened to be on holiday or posted abroad or whatever when we had to move, and it just seemed like too much effort either to smuggle it out or to start again with nothing.so if ccp instituted something like that then they would almost certainly risk steadily losing nullsec players. phoebe makes that even more likely: having to travel in a system written to make travel awkward and annoying is not a good idea!edit oops i am endie i guess i should look more carefully at which character i select on the relevant page before posting."
"hi endie,here is my take on it. using goonswarm as an example. you guys hold deklien, from what i understand it's some of the best space (correct me if i'm wrong) in nullsec with regard to moons and ratting space. you guys have held this region for at least as long as i have been playing - 2012.your position in deklien is unassailable, and if you don't actually need any more space, where is the incentive to fight anyone for anything other than for the tears? where are the conflict drivers?if after time regions degraded in some way, while others got better, would that not create conflict and competition for the best space - whatever that means after the sov changes?we need good reasons to fight each other again.as for members not playing because moving is a pain, i imagine even more members stop playing because of boredom, no wars to fight."
"one quibble: i don't think that anyone in nullsec is currently unassailable. i just think it would be horribly hard work to take down n3 or the cfc.you have a fair point on the gradual effect of boredom on subs, but i repeat that losing even just a quarter of the nullsec playerbase every few months due to the system you suggest forcing constant moves and logistics on people - the low end of what we have seen - would soon see only a tiny remaining nullsec population.i am confident that goonswarm, pl, ncdot and the like would move to npc space, charge protection money by bullying others, and spend their time hitting the unprotected people who try to live in nullsec, driving yet further numbers out of the game. it would be a horrible outcome for eve. nullsec would be a desert."
"i'm sure you're right. it's why i voted for you"
"let's see what ccps rizzie come up with this week and we'll know what sort of basis we are working from."
"the tension is just unbearable, isn't it?"
"i do feel i bring real value to the csm in the form of change management, needs facilitation, player issues pass through and the like...howeverif you are just voting for the shineys and the toys offered by ccp, then you might as well drop some comedic value in there in the form of a harry saq...just sayin ;)"
"our roundtables are concluded and have been published. you can find them here:csm/ccp relationship:"
"that was a good time. thank you to dow :)"
"malc is probably referring to my post. at the end of the day the vote calculation algorithm used by ccp is not known, except maybe by csm who may be bound by nda not to impart any knowledge.in the total absence of information, all we have is conjecture.. and the desire to vote against a candidate is not a new one."
"recording is up on csm9.org here:"
"pvp isn't risk-free, even missioner ganking. last time i checked pretty much any ship can fit a tackle mod of some sort, and the training time is what 15 minutes? every player has the option to fit a point (or more pvp mods in general) while missioning. if they are too greedy to not fit one, then they have to bear the consequences. one of the major gameplay aspects of eve is figuring out how to earn an income in the face of someone trying to stop you. \"opting-out\" of pvp (not just in lowsec, but highsec as well) basically breaks the game by allowing risk-free isk making. if anything, ccp has been recently increasing the opportunities for conflict between pve activities and those that hunt them outside of highsec. this drives conflict and is good for the game.i can see why your suggestion would increase pve activity in lowsec, but i can see no way in which that is good for the game overall. if you want more non-combat ships in lowsec, increase the reward (or fun-ness) for that activity, not reduce the risk."
"made me laugh, so i'll give you 4/10.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
">code agentat least you wear your platform on your sleeve."
"from over here."
"same thread as above but with highlighting."
"poke. voting ends mar 10? how are ya feeling?"
"and how about that, ccp addressed it. really impressed by the amount of effort he's put in, corbexx getss both my votes"
"today ccp released a new dev blog related to sov changes. this is a big step for the game, and ccp is looking for feedback on their current plans. check my feedback here, and post in that thread your own opinion, as it will be the most watched thread for the next few days!"
"here's an image of a kitten to thank my voters."
"good luck sabriz. as an autz candidate i've been mindful to give you equal mention along with myself and cagali when i've posted or spoken about the csm in the context of eve down under.eve down under - a community for players in the autz"
"i am not the one running for csm with a platform of \"content creation\". neither are you - but by all means keep answering for sabriz. confirmation of the point i made. the aim here is player driven content, you get this right?! so if incursions are \"risk free\" then the blame lies with those fail to bring that risk. it is obviously important to someone. now sabriz cites rl - totally fine, i trust everything is in hand going forward. but no one else takes up the torch, including you. this clearly demonstrates that is not important enough."
"well sabriz did understand what i was asking and the answer i received was satisfactory. but since you did not, i have since edited it for clarity. note especially for you, it was typed slowly, you don't read very fast if you takes days to notice."
"wow, so much bitter. i'm not sure why you are implying an in-game effort to create content has any relevance to the purpose and daily activities of the csm. of all the roles it has grown to fill, running in-game contests isn't really something the csm is for.sabriz, i have cast my multiple ballots for you. you have had an uphill battle for a seat with all the competition this year, but i am optimistic that your campaign has reached many and you have a shot at one of the last seats. your thread has the most likes of any, and only tora's has more views. people, if you haven't voted and you want an engaging new eden full of excitement, conflict, and energy; a new eden where a proper risk and reward balance drives players towards evermore hilarious destruction; putting sabriz as your #1 is a really good idea."
"i imagine it's because a csm candidate (where candidates are expected to have enough time to essentially have the csm as a second full-time job) claiming to be a content creator (purely because all gankers seem to feel they create more content than any one else) while simultaneously failing to create content because of out of game commitments is falling down on both the content creation and the ability to free up time for the csm.except that's not how it's going to happen. i mean first of all sabriz only wants content for one group of players - people who want pvp from the comfort of highsec and want to force people who have no chance of beating them to have to fight back. secondly, even if he makes it to the csm, he won't have control over the direction of the game. it's more likely he'll be seen as overly negative, be involved less in csm processes and ultimately be a wasted vote."
"running on a platform of content creation in no way requires him to run events. also, rl happens. of course, to an npc with a blank killboard, none of this will make much sense as you're just here to troll. thanks for keeping the thread bumped though."
"vote sabriz!"
"lol don't have to get hissy i was just making fun of the typo. we all make them. i apologize if i don't check the forum often enough on weekends for your liking. i typically only check it while i'm at work."
"you should know that being bumped is not always the best position to be in.some time past it was discovered that devs are prohibited from suicide ganking. the almost immediate acusation from various elements including james315 was that \"you are not playing our game\". so here we have a candidate representing a play style - \"but is not playing that game\". the ad hominem card cannot be played at this time. troll hits your post for 3 points, lose a turn. (that what you wanted?)"
"still digesting the sov devblog. posted only minor thoughts in that thread so far.my post there:need to think much more before giving feedback as to the overall direction.however, three small points.1) mining and ratting should be able to substitute for each other. this system makes doing both extremely important to holding sov. let players do the one they prefer rather than providing mechanical advantages to splitting your effort 50/50 between the two.2) entosis links will be frequently destroyed and so should drive an enormous amount of industrial production. crius (for all of its successes) had one enormous failure in that it reduced the gamewide demand for production line hours and science line hours.i propose that you make entosis links take a considerable amount of time to produce (of the order 4 production hours for a t1, 36 science hours and 16 production hours for a t2 assuming skills all at 4, station services and no decryptor being used) to help address this. this will help address some of the economic issues caused by crius's increased production throughput.some numbers that would achieve this ballpark:base production time: 6 hours entosis link 1, 24 hours el 2base invention %: 30base copy time: 6 hours el 1invention time: 6 hours el 1base bpc max runs: 720 (el1), 1 (el2)finally, el2s should be produced with something that marks them out as 'different' to other production, and that favors building them in nullsec. i propose a megacyte-heavy basket of minerals for el1s, and an el1 plus 250 of each racial processor for el2s.(edit: 250, not 2500. you have a math degree irl sabriz, don't be an idiot)3) entosis trollfits (fitted for absurd speed) are going to be a hell of a nuisance. a 10mn mwd confessor orbiting a structure with an el2 will be a horrendous thing to catch. please add a hard cap on the speed players can go with an el active - i propose 3000m/s for el1 and 3600m/s for el2."
"i was asked in game to show some examples of things i'd be for, such as what would i support in the platform bullet points previously posted.a few examples of items i would support:npc's:have the drifters go to war with concord in an incursion like manner. the effect would be that the drifters would engage any capsuleers they randomly feel like engaging and also temporarily negate concords capabilities within that system they are doing their incursion in until the drifters leave the system/are destroyed etc. pc's:remove players access to npc corps once their account is off trial. add a new player status \"no corp\" with the effect being that they are considered outlaw to all other players until they join a corp or form their own corp. players who leave a corp voluntarily cannot join another corp for 1 week unless they are recruited straight into another corp from the corp they are leaving.orafter an account is off trial any npc corp the players characters join is considered part of faction warfare for the faction that the npc corp is a part of.or both!aurum:having microtransactions for items that actually affect gameplay. the current microtransactions only buff how the character's or ships appearance with no effect on gameplay. if you're asking someone to pay real world money for aurum then allow for some items in the aurum store to be similar to the items players can purchase with loyalty points with some effect on the gameplay. it could be something similar to what the dust players can do without being overbearing or outmatching to the lp store setup.changing the bounty system in some positive way:remove the percentile payout and set the bounty payout to 100% of the kill value.and/orfor any bounty of 100m isk or higher individually placed on a character (not corp) add one open killright, activable once only by anyone, to the character the bounty is placed on. the bounty remains if the killright actvation does not clear the bounty.just a few thoughts to clarify the sort of things i'll support and push for without getting to bogged down in details."
"i like most of this. i really like the npc corps all being part of fw. this will make the perma npc corpies come out to play. i also like the bounty fix. i am curious of your oppinion on the nerf reversal... what nerfs would you un-do?"
"so continuing the theme of quality game play, and meaningful engaging content, regardless of the overall viewpoints of the new sov mechanics, ccp is still relying on the same low quality interfaces.mitigating the number of alts prevalent in the game is a function of engaging and meaningful game interaction. alts exist to do the crappy things that ccp keeps designing to force teamwork (lighting a cyno is always the best example, but afk cloak camping is another).they did the exact same thing with the entosis link. push a button and wait, somebody even posted a snarky yet telling response in the feedback thread along the lines of \"well, looks like i have a few more skills to add to my cloaky afk campers\".whatever you think of the new module and mechanic, i would argue that it is a tremendous opportunity to add some awesome things to the game. read my post in the feedback for what i am talking about:"
"love the videos, love the concept of your corp, love the torpedo delivery guides! i like the fact you are creative, you care and are supportive of eve and hav a great sense of humor. you got my vote! good luck!"
"thanks to the dow podcast crew for hosting these round tables. i have a great time and i hope i didn't ruin your reputation for quality content.domanark co-host clueless space nerds podcast"
"unless ccp is changing it from the last elections, they're using the wright system. the code used by ccp to run the calculation is here: linkabloobloosearch forums. use it."
"resigned to either fate. a great endorsement."
"(... or swarms of interceptors, t3 destroyers, etc)"
"i just like to see my post in forums. why so serious?i did vote for him howeverat first there wasn't a hance but after ccp purposely cut out a rightfully voted for csm becuz they didn't care for his critism. i said screw it if they don't care i dont"
"lorelei, i am interested in hearing your views on something like this."
"so by having this change in game you want, your going to kill off how many subscriptions from players who make isk being a spy, or camping a null sec system or so forth so how do you plan to help ccp recoup the player base that they loose?"
"but i do thank you for your support of hero's of high sec!"
"ccp is the final decider on what they want to do for the game we all share. they do have data about how people play, that neither you or i have. i am running on ideas based on my specific play experience, and to represent a play style that has been under-represented on the csm.i believe that unfortunately the current spy game and afk cloaky campers are causing the game to loose more subscriptions than the play style you seem to defend. you may not agree with this, but neither of us can know for sure. this is why i am running for csm x, and i certainly would love to see a candidate represent the play styles of spies and cloaky campers in the csm arena.. where are they?also, i could return the same question to you... how do you plan to recoup the subscription losses due to the use of game mechanics that can't really be countered and are all rewards with no risks, which i believe being a spy and being an afk cloaky camper are at the moment..."
"no.a vote for borat is a vote for one more nerf (tm). what would eve be without corporate espionage and cloaky neutral alts? a dead and empty game that's what."
"*puts cynical hat on*\"i think anyone that cares about the game rather than being a breathing advertisement for their group will probably be a frustrated person and waste of a vote.\"they have managed to keep this going for 21 pages with some help from the code fanatics, despite a lot of open hostility, so there is determination at least.*snip* please refrain from personal attacks. isd ezwal."
"for rl reasons i will not disclose the precise reasons i dropped out of eve for most of the period of that event i had planned, other than to say it was a low-level personal emergency. details are a private matter.had i been on csm at the time, i'd have gone inactive for those weeks too. i wouldn't fault a csm member that went inactive for those reasons. real life comes first."
"a few more thoughts on the sov devblog, as it's kinda a big deal. direct copy/paste.ok, a few more thoughts.firstly i need to think more about the primetime issue but my gut thought is that it will lead to a lot of stalemates, where a weak-but-viable au tz alliance has one constellation, a stronger eu tz alliance has the adjacent two, and neither can dislodge the other. stalemates could lead to boredom, or could lead to a system of (fun) permanent war. existing coalitions will probably splinter into groups based upon their timezone and this is probably bad.secondly, the defensive bonuses for ratting and mining (but not for exploration?) need to be more interchangable. the idea of the overhaul is that you want people using space. if you own one system, mining in it, ratting in it, running non-combat exploration sites in it and killing hostile players in both your system and adjacent systems should all contribute to your defensive bonuses and should all be interchangeable. to a mining-oriented nullsec sov holder, the present system says \"we don't care that you'd rather be mining. you need to drop that and rat.\" this isn't good. let players choose *how* they use their space and reward them for using it, don't tell them they have to focus on 50% ratting 50% mining.thirdly, if the present system goes ahead unchanged, there will be a massive flood of additional nullsec mining. a small change here would be a good thing as more mining fleets means more fleets to ambush, and more fighting over null belts means more fights that might escalate. but the economic effect will be a drastic devaluation of null minerals, and the game impact will be a dramatic increase in the number of bots mining in null. i will go as far as to predict that these changes will lead to a 20% (or larger) increase in the number of trial accounts running mining bots in ventures in nullsec, and nullsec wars will be won (in part) by having enough of these bots running to keep your defensive indexes maxxed out."
"well played, npc."
"ain't that the truth! i honestly can't tell if you are being ironic or not, i think probably not, but you get a like anyway. these same devs have on multiple and repeated occasions made it explicitly clear that suicide ganking is an intended mechanic in the game. it's pretty strange to claim that something the developers put in on the game on purpose isn't part of the game.but really, if you read sabriz's campaign statements or look at her vote match answers you can see that she isn't running on a \"pro-suicide ganking\" platform. i think most reasonable people agree (just go read all the candidates vote match answer to the question) that suicide ganking is important for the game and doesn't need any major changes including sabriz. i voted for sabriz because of his ideas and experiences in highsec war and corporation mechanics, and his understanding of industry and production, not to mention that he is clearly an intelligent person that cares about this game. i think he would make an excellent representative of a playstyle that has not only been under-represented on the csm, but as you point out, one that the developers may not have as much experience with because of ccp rules. if you think otherwise, don't vote for him. that is how the system is suppose to work."
"i do not expect the circumstances involved to repeat, but a family member having serious health issues can happen to anyone."
"indeed they can and i'm not disputing that, but surely you can understand why someone would take it as a bad sign when we're not even past the campaigning stage, right?"
"i can't. in fact, i am wondering if you sprained your arm reaching so far."
"of course you can't, but then from a code member who quite publicly has some kind of personal problem with me trying to push for a code candidate, i hardly expect you to be objective. didn't you block me already?at the end of the day, people can take it how they want. clearly that guy takes it as a bad sign, and while i may not entirely agree, i can understand why he sees it that way. personally i think the problem with sabriz isn't the level of work he'd put in, it's that he'd actively refuse to consider opposing styles of play to his own as even valid, let alone deserving of any positive changes."
"from my personal discussions on comms with sabriz, i can assure you that is not the case. he is open to opposing views and argues the merit of them, he does not discount them out of hand unless they are blatantly bad for the game or fallacious in nature. even if he were biased towards pvp content rather than ballanced as i consider him to be, what is one advocate for content creation out of 14? the csm are the voice of the players, and historically no csm member has represented the play style while every other play style has been represented. that is why i voted for sabriz, encouraged all my friends too, and sincerely hope that he does in fact get elected."
"1.0"
"endie #1"
"ccp leeloo: upd: 23792 votes last year and 27304 this year! you still have a chance to vote"
"i need more caffiene before i re-read that. o.o"
"...hell, it would even be interesting if there was a valkyrie mini-game, something, anything over pressing a module and waiting..."
"whoops..in the rush to get the last few interviews out before the election started we didn't link your cap stable interview...so sorry about that!recently cap stable sat down with erika to discuss her csm x campaign."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"this is not a csm campaign thread. please feel free to repost this message in the thread of your choice.thread locked.isd ezwal community communication liaisons (ccls)"
"solid candidate!!dedicated to making new eden a better place for all levels of players. respectful and considerate of new players and vet's equally!mindful of different positions and concerns without being blinded by his own.always ready to listen to ideas and perspectives!just wants a better eve for everyone new or old and willing to devote the time necessary to make it happen."
"you lot seem to have gone very quiet. people are wondering why.perhaps some of you csm hopefuls could trouble yourselves to comment on the proposed sov changes. it's not like this isn't important or anything."
"i posted (explaining why i hadn't posted earlier, too)"
"indeed you did. you were the only one though steve. so much for communication and transparency."
"i suspect there's a degree of 'we'll let the waters calm a bit, before getting in with the piranha' as well as similar reasons to my own, for my favourite other incumbents."
"traveling, should be able to comment by sunday."
"this thread has been moved to assembly hall.isd ezwal community communication liaisons (ccls)"
"well, let's see. steve has explained, gorski has commented in a depth typical for him, xander claims he is off on an oil rig somewhere, mike is sifting valuable nuggets out of the thread, sion is no doubt preparing an opinion piece for tmc, sugar is actually talking to people, corbexx probably doesn't care and everyone else is waiting to see what mittani says. :)"
"i am up to about page 75 out of 131 at this point. i will be answering things there when i catch up.here? i am in favour of the changes. i agree that numbers can be tweaked etc but that is why they put out the blog in the first place . . . for feedback.sadly some in that thread are making their feedback prove that they did not actually read the blog but are reacting off of second hand info. the way i recommend reading the blog is to make notes of the goals and then compare them to the choices made.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"should ccp make the use of the entosis link render the ship immobile. like using a cyno, siege, triage or bastion module. i see and hear complaints of the trollceptor. this could solve the problem, as it would force the use of the entosis to be an actual commitment. or have the entosis link penalize the ship with a reduction in speed percentage."
"xander phoena's feedback:i posted the link to the full blog post in the main thread, and given that it was completely ignored i figure that people there aren't actually curious about what csm thought, they're just mad that csm didn't come out screaming that it was a terrible change.i'm personally amazed that people are more worried about badly-fit interceptors than they are about kitsunes. a cowardmobile that can apply a sov laser while also jamming out a counter-sov-laser seems to me like more of a threat."
"good day,in game i am known as evelathia. i am 25 years old and a heavy duty mechanic, i live in alberta canada. my father is known in game as xalderze he is in his 60's alberta canada, he works day in and day out, for hours and hours, i can remember a time i did not actually see him for 2 days because of his job he was not allowed to leave his post. but after all that he still comes home to play eve and relax with a big old glass of coffee and his magnifying glass.i have seen the announcement about the new ui changes to the ship icons, i my self like them, but for my father this is going to be tough, i love being able to play this game with my father, i may not do the same things as him in eve but we chat and enjoy our time on here. he loves this game as do i.i am more then concerned, that with this change he may not actually be able to play this game anymore which is an absolute sin and would leave me heart broken. my father has a medical condition called rod cone dystrophy which allows him to see some peripheral vision but not right in front of him unless he uses a magnifying glass, this condition has made him clinically blind since he has been the age of i believe 8 years old, he hasn't legally driven a vehicle, nor had the vision to see the world as me and my sister have, i have never met a stronger man in my life that shows no pain about it and does not ever get himself down or upset because he can not do certain things.all my life we have always had a hard time doing things together because of this blindness he wasn't able to just take me out camping or just hop in the truck and go on a mans day shooting guns an such, but i managed to find gaming and it interested me, i started off with wold of warcraft when i was much younger and he enjoyed my stories, so he looked and looked and looked for a game that interested him and he found eve back in 2006, i enjoyed watching him and all the things he was doing, so i started playing in 2007 with him.we have had our fun made corps together, went to wormhole space together and then we split ways, i went to try null sec life and pirating, he has a difficult time with the pvp aspect cause of the fast pace and the magnifying glass doesn't slide across the screen very fast at all, so not to worry he stuck with industrial side of eve, we chat all the time in game, and most of our phone calls in real life always depict some sort of craziness about eve in them, from oh my god no why would ccp do that, to the usual goons again go figure.to have this game has been the most amazing thing for me and my father for 8 strong years now. we have been to fanfest once and are coming again this march, its our father son get away together.i am asking you ccp please work on a visually impaired ui for eve so i don't loose my amazing father from a game we enjoy to play together and spend hours on together, that has given us the ability to finally connect so much better and have that bonding time with each other. again my father would definitely not ask for something like this as he is a strong man but i know this will not go well for him."
"ccp should make the new icons an opt in choice."
"ccp, can you please release the redacted portions of the minutes relating to sov prior to the election ending in 5 days?"
"what on earth are you talking about? i don't recall any elected csm member being removed for being critical of ccp."
"i think he's talking about funky bacon.where, after he pissed off ccp developers (a: hr issues aren't a csm issue. and b: people had just had friends lose their jobs. his post on it didn't go down well at all) we (the csm) had a talk with him. and he pretty much flat out said he thought posting that kind of story was more important than maintaining a good relationship with ccp devs (note, i'm saying devs, not the company. it wasn't the high ups he'd pissed on). at which point, we (the csm) figured he was more trouble than he was worth (the story burnt capital, for no benefit at all.) at which point we shifted our general chat to a different channel, which he didn't have access to.he still had the same degree of access to ccp. he could still talk to the rest of the csm (he didn't, really) he just didn't see the day to day bullshitting."
"ok, you pretty much had my vote at \"elite on the spectrum 48\", the joys of being captain jameson."
"thanks for asking!i think i said somewhere that lowsec actually probably needs an ore-type that is unique, and pretty much essential for producing some stuff. i think that would be the best and easiest way to get miners out there in the first place.once there is a reason to mine in low, then one could look at balancing ships around that. unfortunately as the system is, i think other changes probably would not motivate many high sec players to move over there."
"trying to dock through the back of a space station, cos of the state-of-the-art line graphics. good times!"
"got my vote!"
"you have it wrong... it's cloaky neutral alts that make the game empty, as they prevent players from undocking. removing anonymity of alts is a bit radical, but may be that is what is needed. in any case it is for ccp to decide if they want to do that or not.borat got my vote!"
"what? nobody is going to ask me about the sov change upcoming? mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"oh hai mike. what u think about sov revamp?"
"to be honest i was wondering what you thought about some sort of sov-lite concept for high sec, where players can have a degree of ownership of those systems and some sort of benefit."
"well the csm has been so quiet in the thread i assumed you weren't interested :) sov light for highsec sounds great. maybe even finer grained, asteroid belts etc."
"usely don't care about csm but hoping ya poin them to a easy solution so voted on yanow get the multi ships fitting working yust hold a beer infront ofthem, open it, then say ya get this when ya get thos done and voila its done within 5 minall structure alrdy inplace uyust a littlebit of coding and done"
"i think it is a good thing. but as fozzie said, it will need continual tweeking. sov systems will always find a balance and start to stagnate if you don't poke and change it on a regulare basis. like a plant becoming pot boundmmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"hell no, to the staying out of the thread, i am just trying to catch up, yes i am reading all of it and in the first few days it has gotten away from me, gimme timestaking a claim on a belt has been suggested before. not a bad ideammike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"perhaps he should state that then. from his ideas and listening to his interviews, he believe that miners should be forced to engage in pvp with guns, a playstyle they are both terrible at and dislike. he states this will add more conflict - by which he means with guns - even though he also states that conflict come in multiple forms.please stop referring to it as content creation as if all other playstyles are not. content is created in a multitude of ways. i don't think any of the csm member could be considered anti-content. honestly i think what code does is damaging to many other playstyles. effectively you are happy to have your content while roflstomping over everyone else's playstyles in highsec, and you want to be able to do that with even greater ease. it's for that exact reason that sov is being changed to make my own group less effective too. while no, other csms don't necessarily represent all playstyles, they certainly are more balanced in their views than sabriz. obviously you guys will vote for him because he's pro your playstyle, but outside of that people shouldn't even consider it. nobody should vote for someone who would quite happily erase whole playtyles and force people to play in ways they don't want to. it's for that exact reason i'd not advocate voting for one of the csms who want ganking to just be deleted either."
"i have removed a rule breaking post.the rules:4. personal attacks are prohibited. commonly known as flaming, personal attacks are posts that are designed to personally berate or insult another forum user. posts of this nature are not beneficial to the community spirit that ccp promote and as such they will not be tolerated.isd ezwal community communication liaisons (ccls)"
"yup. can't csm if your meat bag starves to death. can't think and focus if one of the meat bags very similar to your own is struggling, et cetera. ummm ... miners in null clump together as deep as they can into pockets and pipes for safety.there is no shortage of ratters.the question that needs thinking about is, \"how do i give miners an ability to stand and fight so they feel safe enough to spread out in null?\""
"got my vote!7o"
"as i write this we are on page 134 of the feedback forum, and by now it is all talking in circles. it would really be nice if ccp would provide a response regarding the issues raised so the conversation can move forward a bit. there are alot of good subtle ideas and other points being made that are getting drowned out by the big three issues.1. inty entosis2. prime time3. we have now gotten two sticks, where's the carrot (otherwise known as incentive to even live in null)i know it is only the third day, but i am not seeing alot of ccp feedback to the feedback, doesn't have to be much. sounds like they need to grow a harry saq! help them out and vote harry saq!"
"thanks so much for posting. tho i will say that the interview was deffentally not the best (which i explained here:"
"1st on my ballot. convinced by the capstable podcast for sure."
"this thread has been moved to assembly hall.isd ezwal community communication liaisons (ccls)"
"i agree with rosal. his points are valid."
"counting myself as a csm \"hopeful\", here is the link to my feedback on this the day of."
"while kitsunes can target a full 250km of entosis's range, it's slow, and can be caught. a lulz fit trolleceptor may not be able to target a full 250km, but its targeting range can still be made large enough that it has a large radius to play hard-to-catch with while keeping the sov laser on.i'm more concerned about \"afk camping duty\" that's coming. afk camp will be the only effective way to drop system defense (no, not the small gang roam that only drops activity for 5 minutes). there's no excuse to not show up on \"afk camping duty,\" since all you're doing is... nothing. this is not how i want to spend my eve playtime...any thoughts from csms on this?"
"if a kitsune wants to come in close enough to jam you, it generally has to be within sniper range. thus it can be blapped off the grid.they are also slower than ceptors, and not bubble immune.eve is like an addiction; you can't quit it until it quits you. also, iderno"
"closed."
"with the stv vote system, not filling your 14 choices fully is the best way to limit independent representation on the csm.there is no downvote possible, but the stv system is fair enough that you do not need it. just put 14 candidates that are not part of the big blocks if you want to not cast a vote for any block, and prioritize them according to how well their capmaign fit your views."
"we have been running through scenarios. as the sov changes are planned right now, there is no point defending sov. this is a really heavy handed solution with very short sightedness. it will be a lot of small gangs fighting ... mechanics perfect for low sec, not for an aging player population that wants to build things and work strategically.griefer's paradise and interceptors online, here we come.(all the interceptors spreading out everywhere to hack every sov unit in a region)"
"hey, have you voted for steve?what the hell is even wrong with you? go vote for steve!"
"we have !! \" they're gonna feel pretty stupid when they find out. \" rick. \" find out what ? \" abraham. \" they're screwing with the wrong people. \" rick. season four. ' the walking dead. ' ."
"also it is from 3 months ago to bad you never get anything recent so sad :("
"all my votes went to xenuria, just to **** of the anti-xenuria posters in this thread!my advice for everybody: vote xenuria, it will make great laughs!!!"
"sorry dude but no. the average female in eve is unlikely to vote for you (speaking as a female and as someone who knows a large number of females in game)also i noticed you ignored my questions."
"he always does, this isn't new. i am female as well and i didn't vote for him. i know a number of fellow female players as well, and same applies. heh. i have seen his attempts for a few years and i usually refrain from commenting, but this year i guess i felt like i had to?what i fear is that i keep seeing people placing \"troll\" votes to him, and so the scary part of this, so many people are speaking up on these troll votes, and what if all these troll votes actually gets him in? it seems like he also doesn't take any of this seriously from reading all his posts and what not, it seems more like a joke to him, vs the people who truly want to help make a difference in this game, those votes should go to candidates who truly want to represent the community, not this.and that is my two cents, take it as you will."
"that could be a good carrot but it would make null and worm holes even less self suffient. additionally, aren't there too many rods keeping people out of null? not enough tools to adapt in there?"
"got my vote. i think my alts voted for you too but i'm never sure what they are doing"
"thanks guys. every vote is needed"
"if you put tora on your ballot, send him a fedo for each vote!"
"this public fleet fc gives you his vote"
"thank you.yes, removing alts anonymity is a radical concept, but i do believe that it would improve the game for the majority of players. i understand that it would also alter spy-ing and cloaky camping, but would not prevent those activities altogether."
"sorry cant vote for you1. you dont have the well being of eve as a agenda, only your bit2. be capable of growing chest hair first :p"
"don't forget to vote guys!"
"as a csm candidate, i support this idea by xttz:"
"thank you for the support :)"
"<U+265C> <U+265E><U+FFFD> <U+265A><U+FFFD> <U+265D> <U+265E> <U+265C><U+265F> <U+265F> <U+265F><U+FFFD> <U+265F> <U+265F> <U+265F> <U+265F><U+FFFD> <U+265B> <U+265F><U+FFFD> <U+265D><U+FFFD> <U+FFFD>  <U+FFFD> <U+FFFD>   <U+FFFD>"
"a possible alternative to how sov works combining current and fozzie sov."
"second time i've voted for you steve! keep up the good work"
"are you a heavy miner?it's easy to have various thoughts about how to \"improve\" mining but what constitutes improvement has much to do with pov and level of involvement with the activity. be wary about the clamor that mining needs improvement.i mine every day with six toons and have done so for years. i enjoy the process and the environment. but, i have to say, i mainly enjoy it because i'm commanding my own mini-fleet. i mine with four mining barges (skiffs or hulks depending on locale). highsec hulk mining is engaging as the roids don't last all that long and you're in potentially hostile territory and ice mining with skiffs is engaging because it's very competitive. feeding this many mouths on the proceeds from mining entails a number of skills and a variety of efforts, but done well it pays well.however, solo mining is another story. that's the rub. mining with several toons is engaging. mining solo, not so much. my concern is with proposals that add more busy work to the mining process to make it seem more engaging, which perhaps means something to the solo or casual miner but is nothing but a pain to the multi-toon pro miner.we serious multi-toon miners make up a good portion of the mining community from what i've seen in the belts. we're just not banging on doors asking for anything to be \"fixed.\""
"i couldn't help myself. one xenuria vote at #1. the csm \"deserves\" you"
"i think one of the big draws of null is the big alliances, big battles et cetera.i think anything that entices people out of high sec could be a good thing... and that is where the unique ore should come in.maybe \"self sufficiency\" should involve more than one sec status... low, high and null?"
"i can get behind this.desireable but non-essential things in different and all sectors of space.(so null might have desireable thing #1 but low would have #2, bit like how whs have the t3 stuff. you don't need t3s to fight wars but you need almost all minerals to make all ships.)essential ship building and pos fuelling in all sectors of space."
"+2 votes castbest of luck, tora."
"thank you, founder of marmites"
"you've got my votes too tora. good luck!"
"voting today. thanks for the work in csm 9; looking forward to seeing you in csm 10."
"voting today. i like your work with the lore podcasts on"
"dont worry, dreads will be removed soon as they have no ability other than damage dealing, carriers will be reduced to one highslot and no dronebay, supers are already slated for a change to have 0 in-fleet ability besides arbitrary stat bonuses, and titans, well titans are busses that should have been removed long ago as they really dont serve any psychological factor like they used to, they arent a serious dps or fleet support factor ongrid, just brick houses of ehp that for the large part can be ignored unless your fleet is mostly caps, then maybe they have enough to alpha carriers/supers off before reps, but not much else"
"this whine is weak. a blob of carriers can be alphaed off the field with a much smaller blob of dreads worth only a tiny fraction in total isk compared to the carrier blob they're killing. sure, you're going to lose dreads, but that's working as intended. did you want to kill capital blobs with cruisers, and be able to burn off at the earliest sign of trouble and lose nothing? now that's unbalanced."
"and we know this is possible as drones can be scooped directly to the drone bay.posting to bump and further support this concept."
"an exellent way to introduce a new set of t2 destroyers and battleships, supported."
"so, i found out that tora's war declaration is still active today! a guy from my alliance went all the way up and had a look at jita, went something like this,\"hey guys there is a bunch of war targets on jita station,\"\"really? we are at war?\"\"yeah, why didn't anyone tell me?\"\" ... because it isn't serious. we lose and destroy more in a night in one fleet fight than they have managed in two weeks.\"i mean come on, we had three war decs on us already when he declared war. did he really think it would bother us? (i suppose that he has to believe he achieves something or he would just have to give up).now, i am interested to see how long he keep the declaration running non-stop.this whole thing is like dealing with a toddler:\"johnny, have you been naughty?* john starts pummelling your thigh* \"hey! don't be silly little guy, you can't hurt me with your tiny fists. why didn't you just answer the question?\""
"most proposals made on the forum to 'improve' mining usually fall under either vast increases to yield or total changes to remove the current leisurely method of mining. some would use 'boring' instead of leisurely but note i do not agree with those comments.the steve ronuken proposal is the best so far because:1) it introduces a kind of 'sovereignty' aspect to high sec which is interesting.2) it defends the connection between the empires and capsuleers as faction standings will be required.3) it defends small miners from being predated by large 'afk' miners who gulp up all the ore.4) it adds a further complication for gankers in that they cannot just warp to the belts. they have more work to do if they want to suicide gank your mining vessels. 5) it adds content to the missions part of the game which has taken a few hits in recent times and still appears to be in ccps firing line. so on the whole i would like to see his ideas implemented."
"i think the candidate should reply. some of what you say worries me in that i don't see how these concepts, though somewhat interesting as concepts, actually make the activity of mining more engaging. bringing up the myth of large \"afk\" miners gulping up the ore from poor solo miners is, well, nonsense. someone really needs to clear the air about this old afk mining stereotype - it's not what multiboxers do. you can't really do serious multibox mining afk. plus, if a mining fleet comes into a belt where someone's mining in a venture - easy fix, venture, find a different belt. no matter how many large mining fleets are out there, there's more ore for the soloist.this isn't the candidate's reply above but your comments have me a little worried that he's bought into the afk asteroid vacuum cleaning propaganda."
"i'm not a heavy miner, no. unfortunately, with being on the csm, my time in space has suffered. i do have miners on my three accounts (well, 2 miners, and one booster in an orca with a mind link, now that mindlink prices aren't insane)from before i got elected, well, i know how much effort is needed when mining in highsec. if you're in systems which get mined out, yes, the roids are small, and you need to keep switching. if you're in a less busy system, they're generally enough for 2 or three cycles (or more)anyway:i'm not looking to change the core of mining. i'm looking to (as much as the csm can change anything. which means, i'm suggesting):a: supplement it with an active method, which is less efficient, but faster. b: change how you find asteroids in the first place. so, with skill and effort, you can find larger asteroid fields. or you can have someone else find them, then sell them to you. /if/ you're in a pc corporation. right now, there's no real benefit for miners to join a corp. i'd like to add one. so, for a large multibox miner, the main change would be finding the roids. rather than just warping to a belt. i don't see it as something which would take vast quantities of time, and the sites would last a while (if you're good at it. smaller sites would be easier to find/create) oh, and they wouldn't be anomalies, but bookmarks."
"thanks for the reply.regarding the reply, can't see the point of a method that's faster but less efficient, unless you're thinking that would be another attack on afk miners, which i hope is not the case because this seemingly popular propaganda about afk mining should have been put to rest along with the demise of permanent ice belts. this won't make mining more fun - just forced engagement.the prospecting idea has been brought up in several places, several times, by several people. i'm guessing it has something to do with other space games that have or will pursue this mini-game. for eve, this too strikes me as nothing more than busy work. maybe sort of fun the first couple of time, but a pain in the neck thereafter for those of us who mine daily.but, this is not the time or place to dig into the mining issue, this is simply your candidacy thread.you got my vote, not because of your mining opinions but because of the great work you've done with your website and 3rd party development. maybe we'll talk more about mining some other time."
"it's not an attack on afk miners.it's an alternate method. you'd get isk faster, but deplete sites faster (thus, needing to find them more often. and pay more attention while doing it). mining the old way would take longer, but you'd have more isk at the end of it."
"i voted xenuria.xenuria for csm 10!"
"liaras far as i know (which is everything, because i'm god himself) this is still the internet, isn't it?"
"i have removed some rule breaking posts and those quoting them. as always i let some edge cases stay.please people, keep it on topic and above all civil!the rules:9. posting of personal information is prohibited. the posting of personal information, or <U+FFFD>doxxing<U+FFFD>, including but not limited to personal contact numbers, email addresses, account names and passwords, home addresses and real life names is strictly prohibited. ccp respect the right of our players to privacy, and will not tolerate the divulging of real life personal details.. 11. discussion of warnings and bans is prohibited. such matters shall remain private between ccp and the involved user. questions or comments concerning warnings and bans will be conveyed through email or private messaging. ccp respect the right of our players to privacy and as such you are not permitted to publicize private correspondence (including support ticket responses and emails) received from any member of ccp staff. isd ezwal community communication liaisons (ccls)"
"i would like to remind everybody that if you have not already voted, you should probably do that. if you have any accounts that you have not voted with you should do that as well. it's easy to forget which accounts you voted with when you have many of them."
"check the csm wire page, and go vote if you have not done so already! ... this is your game !... this is our game!cast your ballot now!"
"only a little over a day to vote your harry saq onto the csm ;)"
"i thought jump freighters were industrial ships, with the reduced fatigue timer and a larger storage than said carrier. granted yes you need to redo the rigs you are able to move 6 battleships for example plus the fittings vs the single battleship and a frig or two with a carrier. as an industrial pilot i thought you and your industrial continuance would be glad with the fact of the jump range nerf and fatigue timer. said way of operating would result in more demand for both ships, mods, and rigs. ships and mods have a chance to be killed by a defenseless jump freighter or it would require a support escort. war is good for the industrialist because it creates demand. if the industrialist can not keep up on supply there is where would be better addressed. keep in mind this is coming from a limited industrial primary pve pilot. if you can not see this plain obvious way of doing things then what makes you think you could be of use on the csm? i really am trying to see your logic but this being eve it is adapt or die even for the industrialist."
"all i have said that it is used in logistics operations, which is true, it is. i have had more than a number of people agree with me on that aspect. yes they are not intended as industrial ships, but even so, we still use them for that - it can save time and be more cost efficient depending on where they are going vs packaging them up and then going ahead and refitting them.so i'm not seeing how it's a valid argument since i have already said that they are not industrial ships, i have agreed with that."
"it looks like a way that non-combat toons can assist in major fleet ops and small indy setups as well, i approve"
"props to xander phoena and the crossing zebras team for their efforts regarding feedback on these changes, with podcasts featuring manny, eddie, progodlegend, and grath telkin. who are all big nullsec movers and shakers.thanks guys.go vote for these guys..."
"you do seem more worked up about it than he is, even if you also believe you're winning. i don't think he really puts much thought into who he decs, he just likes lots of red targets and a constant influx of tears."
"i am having a very public laugh at his impotence and how there is a candidate that is so unapproachable. (can you imagine it? \"hi tora, i have some concerns about the mechanics they plan for sov.\"\"get lost! i don't care.\"\"isn't that an odd way for csm to respond?\"\"declaring war on you! raaagh!\" ) i do like your idea about making supers and titans have various sub roles and access levels, so you can \"moor\" them to a pos. (have to destroy the pos to get the super / titan) and then be able to go about your business, while others with the roles can use some of the ship abilities.(by the way, marlona sky biomassed)."
"for the giggles:eve is dying, don't you know?"
"yes so hard especially since i buy thousands of accounts to vote in this game good thing i named them all xenuria sucks1-5001."
"given your unwavering commitment to trolling this process i would not be surprised if you had my name tattooed on your forehead."
"you still haven't answered why voting for you isn't a mistake so i don't see any reason to vote for you. i still don't have any confidence that you have the best interest of the community at large at heart and you ignoring questions and calling people trolls isn't helping."
"voted xenuria. the guy takes the time to know his ****/what he's talking about, and genuinely cares. it's more then 90% of the other people campaigning. power to xenuria, glory to change, expect transition, life finds a way...."
"in case you missed the first post of the thread, i won't be answering loaded questions. doing so could be seen as engaging flame bait."
"seems delayed local is becoming a thing"
"tora, how much time per year do you spend in null sec? is this maybe you hoping more people will come through jita? p.s. i spent about a year almost solo in a worm hole, so no tears."
"i've spend more time in null-sec and low-sec then you would probably guess. but then i need to tell you who my other chars are, which i wont. so i do know how to speak f1 and redeploy. remember assumptions are the mother of all f*ck*ps. i wonder why"
"you will find anything! (ceo kept hopping, high sec mining, high sec / low sec gang wars, c2 with c3 link, ( where i stayed), c2 with c4 link, (where i didn't have the sp to pilot ships for c4 sleepers), to incursions and then to null sec renting. so, we were all spread out really thin.)questions aren't assumptions. you can give ball park numbers and alliance names, talk about your experiences there. don't have to be specific on names and battles."
"as tora is the only one (i think) that does empire war decs daily out of the candidates, i have to support tora here.he does empire war decs every day and he have done that for a bloody long time now, so he pretty much knows the stuffs / deal with empire wars and war decs in empire.and as i love empire pvp and empire war decs, i for sure want to see some good changes to empire pvp and the war dec system in general. and i'm pretty sure tora is the only person here that knows the stuffs 100% in this.because of that, my support goes to tora."
"you have my full support bobmon, even when you're wrong.+1 bobmon pl spiritual leader all the wayvoted #1 bobmong"
"the nerfing of eve has been one little paper cut at a time.example of a something to rollback:changing aggression mechanics to appease the lazy:when the mtu's were introduced drones would aggress if the mtu was attacked putting both players involved into a limited engagement. the afkbears screamed that this was unfair and demanded it be changed... the initial response was working as intended which later ended with the aggression mechanic being quietly changed during a patch to appease those too lazy to play the game with a degree of attentiveness beyond \"at the rock push f1, launch drone and mtu - go watch netflix\"....friendly fire as a corp option to make hisec safer for new players:eve's draw, for myself, is that it's not wow in space. safety is something that is never fully guaranteed. the old friendly fire on status was in existence for a variety of reasons such as allowing for corp pvp practice, corp discipline short of booting someone etc. awoxing and safari were part of the landscape that had to dealt with through diligence/common sense and care. now people can be even less careful, diligent etc about how they interact with people in the \"sandbox\" eve once had a claim to be. not saying i'm for rolling it back purpose of making it easier for awoxing or reverse safari etc but ffs where does it end? does eve officially die in the sense of being a \"sandbox\" when they remove all the things can cause loss or otherwise require risk? each little nerf done for appeasement or becoming more like wowinspaaaaaaaaace is, in my opinion, a paper cut towards the end of the sandbox. the sandbox is about risk management and working well, or not, with others. take away that aspect and the sandbox ceases to be and eve loses out on being somewhat unique and essentially slides more towards being wowinspaaaaaaaaaace etc in my opinion."
"i highly support any ships that aid in the deployment and removal of pos's. i haven't fully read both threads and apologies if i am repeating anything, but these are my first thoughts on the matter, from my experiences of using and deploying starbases.a good bonus for these ships in the possible changes to starbases is that they can be used to anchor/un-anchor modules at the same time at the same starbase, that would really helpful.these ships could use a t3 like subsystems (not a t3 ship though) that could allow you to configure it to a specific role, so if you want ships to drop a tower you might not need the large primary weapon, but on the other hand if you are planning to siege a tower then you don't need a massive cargo bay if this is the role this ship is going to cover. as a combat engineering ship it needs to be adaptive.i like the idea of a light ship maybe with a primary weapon as an anti structure energy weapon. if this ship is not limited to just deploying things like mobile warp disruptor and can be used to scoop starbase modules as well, it will need a sizeable cargo bay 10 - 20km3 if you don't want to keep going back and forth to a drop point, as some of those modules can be big for a small ship. the heavy combat engineering ship could be a problem as in where do you stop, there would be a good number of issues for how big you could make it and how much it should carry for starbase deployment. fuel and stront are the largest items to be delivered to a location, would it be acceptable to carry all that a starbase needs for a month in one go? plus it would also need to be able to fit inside wh's maybe c2 and above, so we are looking at at least and orca sized ship to pull this off i would guess.if the heavy combat engineering ship were to use a large anti structure weapon, my first thought is yes please, but how powerful to make it i don't know, it would have to be less than a dreadnought in siege mode but if it works like a doomsday for example uses a lot of fuel to activate it, then would it be acceptable if it took off 10 million hp every 5 minutes?personally i don't necessary think adapting industrials or cruisers into further t2 version for this role makes sense, as these ships are very specialized maybe have them belong to a pirate faction or ded would b a good idea. they will need to be generally well tanked and the ability to break through blockades so interdiction nullified would be a good ability. defence wise drones would be a good idea which would allow the ship to continue doing its job while under fire. if tractor beams could be used to drag in un-anchored structures quickly it would make these ships work really well."
"supportedalthough we don't need deployable afk weapons that can be deployed on a gate or belt unless there is a time or a limit based on skills as this system could be abused to leave a bunch of afk weapons and then we end up with vietnam"
"i love the lack of hot drops thanks to fatigue. i hope they reduce the fatigue bonus on industrials and black ops soon."
"greetings members of the council for stellar management and eve pilots,i would like to propose an idea we had that could improve player control over the number of blueprints and afford additional opportunities for players to achieve control over markets. and expand the game for players interested in industrial play, while addressing a game balance issue that hampers newcomers to eve, while giving early adopters a massive market advantagewhile talking with my ceo it occurred to us that the ability to make a profit on t2 ships is becoming harder and that most t2 materials with decent invention of prints are not profitable for me or any of my corp mates able to make ships. we theorized that the mega alliances like goonswarm and pandemic legion (or others) have a monopoly on tech 2 bpos with a much better materials efficiency lvl readily available and a free-flowing moon goo supply to make these ships for far lower cost than any other group.this means early adopters of eve have an unfair advantage over all other players, and are effectively controlling the tech 2 market.during this conversation we considered the fact that as t3 ships need to be reverse engineered why not destroy a tec 2 ship and from a fragment of the salvaged ship reverse engineer a bpo of the ship? this would create a new task and activity niche in the game and would make it possible for others to gain the bpo<U+FFFD>s that exist in the game now, but are only available to the select few mega alliances and aforementioned early eve adopters who won tech 2 bpos way back when. this idea could also be adapted to all ships and modules in game at this time and work on the invention principle. it would require skills, datacores and a percentage chance of success similar to current invention practices in eve.thank you for your consideration and hope you will find this concept of sufficient merit to present it to ccp at the next summit, or earliest opportunity.chen gidrine and enn deekay"
"i don't wholesalely agree with your idea, even though i think there should be a better way to get to any type of t2 bpo differently than paying for that one guys great-great-great-great-great-grandchildren's ships, schooling and retirement plan.basically, that's the main drive-off for new players. two people i know wanted to start playing, went into industry, found out they'll never be actually getting their hands on a t2 bpo, since their prices are insanely expensive, and quit the game. because to them there was no purpose always having to dig into their own pockets for extortion of other blocs who had those blueprints."
"or just get rid of t2 bpos all together. problem solved."
"keep spamming locals in high sec. ask people to vote. try and beat 10% of the population voting this year."
"poke. checking on jen."
"it does little to engender community confidence in a candidate when the candidate refuses to answer questions. \"i won't answer loaded questions\" might work once or twice where its obvious, but using that excuse over and over renders it flimsy indeed. a question is not loaded simply because a truthful answer would reflect unfavorably on the candidate.furthermore, attempting to use forum rules to lawyer your way out of answering won't inspire confidence either. it's not hard to figure out that if candidates can dismiss any question because in their personal view its \"flame bait\" or \"trolling\" that will quickly result in candidates rejecting hard questions on those grounds.the excuse of flame bait and trolling looks even worse whn you make snarky comments about people forgetting to vote on some of them while at the same time running on a platform opposing multiple account voting, especially when you have not actually articulated a meaningful problem in that regard."
"so finally the csm voting is over...i managed to attract the attention of gevlon goblin, and the official voting list of the anti-ganker community (see the bio of sarah flynt).some of the commentators thought i was a troll... even gave me a+++ marks as a troll...but i am no troll.the csm is something that needs to be taken seriously, and if i don't get elected, then you can bet i will be back.high sec is also something that need to be taken seriously... even when the focus of the next year appears to be sov changes!i am looking forward to seeing the results of the elections... and reading the analyses of those results!here's hoping for a better high sec!"
"is it a war dec if it is just flagging some people up to trade hub camp? doesn't sound very war like to me."
"as history shows us, it's a war whether one side realizes it or not.something, something, free tibet?"
"something, something, the volition cult. i dont think jenny sees the trouble she is getting her alliance into something something #somethingevilnessandfun"
"vote for tora and he will set you free!"
"++"
"while campaigning, i directed people to you or lorelai as true high sec candidates.voting is almost over and i won't be running again next year. just wanted you to hear a vote of confidence and best wishes that you get a seat."
"damm that was suppose to stay a secret,, thanks"
"good luck mr ravinne. all my hopes and votes are with you.*waves hankie"
"thank you! i'm getting a little nervous now! you could call it irl pvp shakes."
"voted for you with all 4 of my accounts! your videos made me finally get into exploration after dabbling with it in the past. i may actually put my bomber to use after buying it 3 years ago but never using it. lolgood luck!"
"last chance to vote folks... polls close today."
"i agree with agondray, as much as we all liked mines, i don't see how a deployable weapon system could be balanced in a way that would prevent spam. i do think this is a great idea for a new ship class (or classes). there are plenty of good ideas for deployables in the stickied thread. all we need is for ccp to act."
"but theres no problem to solve, t2 bpos dont control the amrkets, ehll, the few of them that are left are mostly either on inactive accounts, or stashed away in collector's hangarsdeleting t2 bposs has little supporting reasons beyond \"waaagh i dont have one so nobody should eb allowed to, especially people who played the game longer than me\", which si the same arguement to remove t3's, supers, sov, moongoo, and hell capitals from the game"
"focusing on other things until the key notes.the fozzie logic has me hoping i lose.(yes, a pun on fuzzy logic)"
"that's pretty obviously a loaded statement. you could ask \"why should i vote for you\" or ask someone else \"why should i not vote for him\" but asking \"why isn't it a mistake\" takes the position that it is a mistake and the questioner must be proven wrong. it's really not possible for it to be a mistake to vote for him unless you intended to vote for someone else and you made a mistake. you vote, you intend to vote for him, it's not a mistake. you might regret it, but that's on you. it's amazing how much time and effort cfc types waste on this guy. we get it. you're not fans. move on. i very much hope he gets elected if for no other reason than to laugh at the reaction. the csm is a partially reimbursed focus group in which the work of the group falls on the group members. it's pure genius on ccp's part. perspective. get some."
"honestly? no real effort has been needed so far, for me.it's so weak a candidate, several things can be rebutted simply by quoting two mutually contradictory statements by xenuria, asking \"which of these represents your beliefs?\" and watch either the rejection of the question, a non-answer or no answer. i mean, it's pretty much a field day for \"what not to do as a serious and sane candidate\"-showcasing.so it's pretty obvious that we're not afraid of xenuria, mostly because it's not a serious candidate.... then why do we use time on it? personally, i enjoy watching train wrecks like this. some people drive slowly past a car accident, and i participate in horrendously executed election campaigns on an internet forum - except of course, no-one gets hurt here, unless they have chosen to put themselves at risk and internalises any grief, so i don't think it's equivalent to watching a car accident.others, like i said earlier, seem to genuinely attempt to improve xenurias campaign, which i don't understand and would generally think futile, but obviously not for the (exact) same purpose as me.a few might primarily be posting to warn people of how moronic xenuria is, although i personally don't think xenuria needs any help showing that to the world.at least one wanted answers to genuine questions, and was put off by the candidates reaction to any questions that doesn't fit the candidate.i'm not going to claim i know why cfc types post here, but if i were a betting personality, i'd say mostly their own enjoyment, and partly a desire to test if xenuria is as worthless as the stories say.and since xenuria summarises his own platform with two words (\"vote xenuria\"), it's easy to see why the stories are vindicated. the platform of the candidate is that voters should vote for the candidate. no politics, no substance, no talent, just ego.and i'm not going to lie, it would be hilarious if he got elected to csm. horrible for the csm as a worthwhile institution, but hilarious. check out this list for a number of examples of the simply crazy hijinks that joke candidates get up to every once in a while.i'm not that afraid, though. trolls could vote for him, and idiots might, but with better troll candidates, and with a number of organised (party-like) organisations, any troll/idiot votes will be diluted into inefficiency. you need a lot of primary votes for xenuria for it to matter at all, and most people votes for candidates who takes their own candidacy seriously."
"that would be a pretty good response if this were a debate among equals, but its not. its a political campaign. xenuria does not have to respond to a question like that by trying to disprove that its a mistake to vote for him; at a minimum he could resond as you did. candidates are not obligated to respond in the format the questioner wants, but when one doesn't respond or responds by calling the asker a \"troll\", thays a tactical mistake. it creates the appearance of being afraid of something and trying to hide it from the voters.also, there have been far better questions ignored or blown off as trolling by xenuria, so focusing on this one is not a legitimate counter to my point anyhow.in reality, the amount of time and effort spent on xenuria's csm campaign by the cfc, opponents in general, and me in particular is really pretty trivial. it's therefore hilarious that you are talking about \"perspective\". furthermore, no one is obligated to \"move on\" from opposing a candidate. i find xenuria very interesting in the abstract both from a) inventing a moral crisis and then running on it and b) doing so in an incompetent fashion. i find this thread interesting as a lesson in \"what not to do to get elected to csm\" and to see community reaction to xenuria's complete lack of an actual platform or agenda. his abject surrender in the face of hard questions about whether a need for a \"reform candidate\" exists, as well as responses like your own which amount to \" go away, you're being mean!\" rather than actually addressing points raised is very instructive for those wishing to run or oppose candidates in the future."
"weve asked the question nicely and unibased before, hell, even given advice and places and ways to be more active in the community to help their chances of getting electedwe were told we were still asking loaded questions and just trolling, were told obviously we just like the status quo and sucking mittanis engorged peanuts, and they we werent welcome in the thread.oh, and just try bringing up any other prior platform xenuria has run on in the previous years, of what the *most* important thing to add to eve was, and youll get a big \"ignored\" stick thrown at your head, and the only reasons those previous platforms were brought up is because they legitimately bring xenuria's competence/ability to perform as a valid csm candidate into question"
"wishing i had voted for you and tried to get others to do so at this moment in time xenuria. would have been so good to have you discussing sov mechanics with fozzie for the next year."
"so on the eve of the end of the voting for the csmx election... i found myself in the anti ganking channel.here is the chat (at the end... there is a pastebin link... if someone wants to read it all!i tried to hide the names of everyone... apologies if i missed anyone!...................<U+FEFF>[ 2015.03.10 23:54:15 ] antiganke12> good luck with the csm vote, lorelei<U+FEFF>[ 2015.03.10 23:54:25 ] lorelei ierendi > antiganke11 getting banned forever. that is like a permaban! that is almost as much win as erotica1.<U+FEFF>[ 2015.03.10 23:54:35 ] antiganke11 > that's not a troll.<U+FEFF>[ 2015.03.10 23:55:11 ] antiganke7 > everyone famous in the game falls into one of two categories . . . either they've earned respect like chribba and eveuni . . .<U+FEFF>[ 2015.03.10 23:55:13 ] antiganke11 > if they see a ban as recognition of their worthiness, then that's their problem. as long as they aren't put in the tournament agai nto waste more time of ccp, participants and viewers :p<U+FEFF>[ 2015.03.10 23:55:15 ] lorelei ierendi > antiganke11 trolls are ugly monsters that regenerate their hp unless you use fire or acid.... so that sounds like a troll to me<U+FEFF>[ 2015.03.10 23:55:28 ] antiganke7 > or they're shameless self-promoters<U+FEFF>[ 2015.03.10 23:55:33 ] antiganke13 > lorelei ierendi i think you are listening to them too much... them saying that they win doesn't mean it's true<U+FEFF>[ 2015.03.10 23:55:35 ] lorelei ierendi > same thing<U+FEFF>[ 2015.03.10 23:55:42 ] antiganke11 > oh, code is certainly the altter antiganke7<U+FEFF>[ 2015.03.10 23:55:50 ] antiganke11 > *latter, can't type tonight<U+FEFF>[ 2015.03.10 23:55:56 ] antiganke7 > antiganke11 couldn't agree more<U+FEFF>[ 2015.03.10 23:55:58 ] lorelei ierendi > antiganke13 why must it be that they think they win.<U+FEFF>[ 2015.03.10 23:56:39 ] antiganke5 > lorelei ierendi they don't. they're trolling<U+FEFF>[ 2015.03.10 23:56:45 ] antiganke13 > didn't you say they got the ultimate troll win?<U+FEFF>[ 2015.03.10 23:57:05 ] antiganke11 > code. relies entirely on propaganda<U+FEFF>[ 2015.03.10 23:57:06 ] lorelei ierendi > antiganke5 they dont just say it. they think it<U+FEFF>[ 2015.03.10 23:57:14 ] antiganke11 > they'll make anything a win because they did it.<U+FEFF>[ 2015.03.10 23:57:45 ] antiganke5 > lorelei ierendi the line member maybe. not their leadership though<U+FEFF>[ 2015.03.10 23:57:48 ] antiganke7 > antiganke11 and if it's really a loss, they'll blame ag<U+FEFF>[ 2015.03.10 23:57:48 ] lorelei ierendi > well it has been fun talking tonight! it is now 1am and i have to work tomorrow... o7<U+FEFF>[ 2015.03.10 23:57:59 ] antiganke11 > either way though... that doesn't really matter. players are free to think however they do.<U+FEFF>[ 2015.03.10 23:58:06 ] lorelei ierendi > i'll be back.....<U+FEFF>[ 2015.03.10 23:58:08 ] antiganke7 > lorelei ierendi o7<U+FEFF>[ 2015.03.10 23:58:21 ] antiganke11 > as long as it doesn't create a toxic environment, something i'm afraid eve is turning too much towards<U+FEFF>[ 2015.03.10 23:58:22 ] antiganke5 > lorelei ierendi thanks for joining :)<U+FEFF>[ 2015.03.10 23:58:25 ] antiganke9> o7the whole chat:"
"the high sec trade hub campers and gankers are the kids that hang around corners beating up little newbies for their lunch money.sending you a hilarious battle report from when i started talking about how gankers are really carebears, code sent a contingent to my home system, caught one procurer because he was stuck on the invisible part of an asteroid. then they had a 97% isk loss when they were wiped out."
"the problem with tora isn't that he doesn't know wardecs, he certainly does. the problem is that because he only supports one side of them, that his opinions are heavily biased in favour of them staying broken. there's indisputable balance issues with wardecs. a group of a couple of hundred players being able to farm several hundred wardecs at a time for mass profit isn't a sign of superior skill, it's a sign that the system is broken and has been for a long time. wardecs are going to change, and it's going to benefit defenders, that's inevitable. the last thing people need is a csm member defending them that resorts to name calling and smacktalk when confronted. there are many other candidates that know about wardecs and can be expected to respond reasonably and objectively rather than just going \"i r want evil\"."
"so many negative comments fueled by madness and ignorance."
"so is he saying, because someone can get more enemies, the war mechanics are broken ? that's not very logical mate. in null-sec, low-sec and wh-space everyone can shoot each other, should we change that too ? must be broken if he cant handle it... ?as long as he followed orders and voted for me, it's ok"
"misrepresentation of an argument, good show.do you honestly think that the ability for a group to set up hundreds of wardecs against a massive variety of groups for less than a single trader can make is a well balanced system? the idea of the wardec system was to allow groups to fight over their disagreements, structure, resources and other competition. it's to drive 2 way conflict which creates meaningful content. the way the system currently operates, it doesn't do that, it simply acts as an off switch for concord, allowing groups like yours to farm easy kills from players who have no interest or skill in fighting. and you don't have to choose \"ooh, do we wardec group a or wardec group b?\", since you can just wardec both.further to that, it acts as a barrier for non-pvp groups who want to generate meaningful content in highsec, as it's so easy to pull off. just look at groups like red-frog or pro synergy. they operate entirely out of npc corps because operating a non-pvp group from a highsec corp is practically suicide. before you go onto it, i don't care if you wardec my alliance. for all i care they could remove wardec fees against null blocs altogether and just let everyone have free targets, but it seems ludicrous to me that the current system is such that the most optimal and efficient method of running a large scale non-pvp group in highsec is to do so out of npc corps.and no, i didn't \"follow orders\". i vote for my choices for csm, not the bloc vote. some of those line up, which is great, but other choices and the order of the votes is significantly different. that said, i don't think being 14th cfc choice means much."
"salty post counter inbound:i'm no longer cfc but did follow orders and voted like a good spacemonkey.good points made, tora! why should everyone be able to farm nullbears for free?!d."
"eve is about sandcastles, eve isnt safe and high-sec isnt a safe place. htfu you carebear. it's unfair you can shoot anyone for free in null-sec and we have to pay for it in high-sec. instead of you wanting to nerf null-sec/etc, you want to nerf the guys who already have to do more hard work and pay mucho iskies to get pvp in high-sec. if you think you re having a hard time in eve now, you should have been here a few years ago, when life in high-sec was much harder. many nerfes have been set to high-sec. high-sec is already carebear land. you just want more, because you want it even easier. because 'it's not fairrr'......boohoooo.....now stop this nonsense and tell me you secretly voted for more evil in in eve !"
"coming from you that means next to nothing. you specifically target the weakest players because you're too risk averse to fight players who can fight back, and you boot people for losing too much and damaging your precious kb stats. just because you like to pew pew industrials on the jita undock doesn't mean you're not a carebear.at no point will you ever see me stating that highsec should be safe, but that doesn't mean that it should be impossible to run non-pvp groups without being instantly wardecced by people like yourself. the game is missing a huge portion of collaborative gameplay simply because the wardec mechanics are overly simplistic and favours your carebear pvp over actual meaningful conflict. ccp know this, and wardecs will change, that's not even a question.and dude, i've been playing for 10 years, so indeed i was here a few years ago. a few years ago you could shield yourself from wardecs, shed wardecs, and the costs were prohibitive for wardec farming (you would not be able to afford close to the number of wars you currently have). unfortunately you seem to drink the code koolaid when they state that highsec is so much safer, and you, like them, ignore changes which made it tougher.the reality is that when i started, you rarely heard about gankers and could operate moderately sized industrial corps with only the occasional wardec. while yes, more mechanics have changed in favour of the highsec carebear than against them, the increase in aggressive activity in highsec and groups who specialise in aggressive activity means that highsec is considerably less safe for the average player than it used to be.i'm all for \"more evil\", it just has to be balanced, and it has to involved more than just shooting people. i don't believe in just nuking every non-guns player into the ground screaming \"yarr\" as if it's some sort of achievement to blow up an industrial ship. i honestly believe you have too much of a blinkered view for your own style of play, and what you consider to be increasing evil is simply softening up your gameplay style at the expense of non-guns players. eve has more in it than just guns you know, and conflict needs to take all of it into account.and sadly no, you were unable to convince me of your campaigns merits and i voted for just 8 people of which you were not one. if you're at fanfest though we can grab a beer and you can try for my vote for next year. :p"
"we've been a year at war with the entire cfc and probably any other alliance in eve. we done more then 10k wars total. are you saying they're all weak ? of course not and you know this as well. you only say that, because it fits your story. you are as selective with words as goblin is with numbers. if people want to be in a safe place, let them move to null-sec. what's this code koolaid ? marmites have been shooting people long before code was a thing. and we're not gankers. so don't mix them up. yarr, is a very nice expression ... yarr ! finally something we can agree on, beer !, to bad i wont be going this year. but i will next year."
"i'm not saying they are all weak, but the vast majority are. you cite the cfc and other null groups, but you know full well that from a high sec perspective, yes they are weak. the only cfc players you encounter in highsec are the ones dumb enough to operate in highsec without using an alt. hardly in line for a pvp award.and yes, the code koolaid where they try to claim that everything in highsec has been nerfed to carebear land while no changes have been made to make it harder. complete rubbish. whether or not you existed first is irrelevant, you still drink in their claims. and the only difference between what you do and what code does is they pay their wardec fees in ships to concord. both of you aim for the easiest targets you can so you can cheastbeat over how great you are for killing rookies.honestly, i can't believe you can seriously look at wardecs and not see how shockingly unbalanced the system is. luckily it doesn't matter. ccp know and have alluded to impending changes. if when that happens you're still too busy saying \"everything is fine\", then you're even less likely to be able to make strong contributions to suggested changes and those carebears you hate so much win even more. if you were a bit more honest, a little less arrogant and realistically approached highsec balance, you might stand a chance of impacting changes they feed down the line."
"if wars ever change in high- sec, the first ones to feel the pain are the industrials. why do you think they sell so many ships now ? only changes i want to see with the current war system, is a way to protect the smaller corps until they are a bit bigger. so they make more isks to hire mercs or setup their own defences. and for the gankers, i want to see more options for anti-gankers to fight back. but you can read about that in the op. i do agree that paying 500m/week for a big null-sec alliance is unlogical. they are big and rich enough to defend themselves. the 500m barrier is just protecting them."
"while producers would see a bit of a dip, it would be short lived. i think ccp are likely to replace wardecs entirely with a mechanic which drives conflict between groups more able to fight each other rather than the very one-sided gank wars we have now, and a considerable amount of ships are lost outside of highsec wardecs too.it's impossible to protect players who want to make isk and be in a corporation, since the act of making isk makes you an attractive war target regardless of size. mercs will never be viable because they simply demand too much isk for most corps for it to be worthwhile. there's not much profitable value you gain from being in a corp over being in an npc corp. not to mention the amount of players who attack with one corp then sell protection services with another. for the most part it's just a way to fleece a rookie corporation for cash. it is ludicrous though that pve groups are better off staying in npc corps than forming up though. that's an obvious hole in current wardec mechanics which won't be solved just by changing prices.as for null corps, it really doesn't matter how much they are to wardec. they are easy targets that provide a huge number of players to shoot and more than pay for their wardecs with the loot they drop, so their wardec price is pretty much irrelevant. if it were too low (or free) more corps would attack them and the targets would soon dry up. null groups always have and always will be the loot pi<U+FFFD>atas of wardeccers."
"lucas, i don't know how to break it to you but your whole argument is based on false premises and conjecture, friend.players who want to make isk and be in a corp should never be excluded from the rich interactions our virtual world has to offer.they are not better off in npc corps if not for taxes and no structures than at least for lack of interaction.corporations can take care of themselves and don't need your patronizing white-knight routine, thanks very much.they could... i don't know, interact with the wardecers/mercs?don't want to pvp, all fine and dandy, even in a pvp centric game but there are consequences. simple.do some diplo before you flaunt your bling maybe? consider having some pvp pilots anyways? hire protection maybe?be a part of the awesome meta? you'd have them build a castle in the sandbox and close the gates forever!if you'd have your way, ccp should just instance the universe so everyone has his/her own personal 'shard' to grind in.if i'd like to start a corporation in the real world but dislike taxes and finances, i can't decide to skip bookkeeping all together, can i? i should work around that, hire someone to take care of it.it's impossible to take you serious while you constantly take a dump on the whole idea which eve has thrived on, the spirit of the game and it's players. the day rabble-rousers like you get their way is the day eve dies.you are in way over your head if you think you can besmirch people like tora, feyd and the plethora of other real content creators with your inane, baseless fantasy. grow up.d."
"he for sure knows a million times more about empire war decs than you would ever dream of knowing and much more than most others who lives in empire. so there isn't really much to argue about there. because of that, tora is the best choice to support if you want to see some good changes to empire pvp and war decs.if tora doesn't knows empire pvp and war decs that does this everyday and have done it for years, then who in the csm does?"
"except they obviously are better off in npc corps. otherwise we would see all of these large non-pvp corps operating out of player corps. but we don't, they all operate from npc corps.that's right, they don;t want to pvp, and they shouldn't be force to in order to group with others. eve is pvp centric but pvp is not limited to shooting people with guns. it's a sandbox game where people can play how they want and alternative methods of interaction should be cherished, not punished.lol, bling. corps barely have to have a financial footprint to become targets because wardecs are too cheap and too easy. i totally get that you'll deny that because you do them.you have absolutely no idea what you are talking about. eve was not built on the premise of \"just use guns all other playstyles should be removed\". it's a sandbox game. a game where you make you own way. balance has fallen towards favouring people who want to score easy kills with little to no effort like yourselves, and you'll say absolutely anything to protect your easy playstyle because you can;t be bothered to put the work in. well tough luck, i'm fairly sure ccp are going to stop all over your little teaparty and you'll have to actually start working for what you get.as for content creation - ha! pew pewing noobs on the jita undock isn't content creation. if anything it detract from content because other playstyle aren't given much of a chance. people like feyd and tora just want to whine on about how super easy everything is while they themselves revel in how easy their playstyles are. if you can't see the blatant hypocrisy there, that's your failing.hey ex-afterbirth, how you doin?tora might well know wardecs more that me, though i'd very much doubt it since the system is pretty simple. and sure, if you want the system more unbalanced in your favour (which i assume you do, since skill isn't exactly your middle name) then tora is definitely your guy, though he'd likely not survive more than a few discussions before he gets makers as \"too negative, disregard\". if you fancy seeing actual balance being supported though like most players do, then he's the exact opposite of a good idea. and you can only really use the term \"empire pvp\" very loosely. camping the jita undock and smacktalking is hardly a good example of empire pvp.anyway, now that tora has his little army of trolls well on their way to disagree with absolutely everything said i'm going to call it a day. i don't really fancy getting into the usual circular arguments which all boils down to \"we cant easy pvp against unarmed targets - cos we're so hardcore\".ttfn"
"you can argue as much as you want, but you don't do empire wars and you absolutely doesn't do that everyday like tora does. because of that, you simply don't know as much as tora does about empire pvp and war decs and how the mechanics behind it works. because of that, you shouldn't even be a part of this discussion if you are not supporting empire pvp and war decs to get better.at least, you should point out toras flaws or bad points with his ideas if there are any. but your knowledge are pretty much zero in this. that's the reason you can't even point out any flaws or bad points with toras ideas and just \"claim\" you know more than him and that tora is just wrong.not only that, but tora knows enough to actually be a real candidate to the csm with it's empire pvp and war dec ideas. you don't understand the game enough even in it's basic state to even be considered a candidate to the csm by a long mile, even if you had tried to go that way. how about that?the fact is that according to you, you know pvp better than those who have done that for many years and even every day for many years (as we have seen from earlier discussions where you claim to know more, even as a carebear noob). you even knows more than tora about what empire pvp and war decs is even though tora does that every day and have done it for many years while you sit in 0.0 space carebearing while using alts in empire for industrial things. you even barely do pvp at all. so how can you expect us to believe you when you have pretty much zero pvp experience to begin with?just because you are sad because you know that tora knows better than you, you don't have to claim that you are better than him at this, because you are not. you are not even remotely near him.oh also. the new rebirth is called 'deadly fingertips' .if camping stations and gates brings tons of kills and tons of isk income, then who gives a rat ass about doing that?you are simply to scared to admit it that you are afraid of the marmite because they are so effective at killing stuffs that way. yeah, you have several alts in empire right?i bet 5 dollars that some of your alts have been war dec'ed by marnmite many times (if they are in a player corporation) and you have simply been hiding from them. that's the plain fact of why you are so angry at tora and marmite in general. yeah, you \"think\" you know more than tora. but hey, i also \"think\" that tora knows much more about empire pvp and war decs than you do. does that makes me to be more right about it just because i think so?no. i know this because it's a fact no matter how little you like to hear it or not. you can disagree and go buuhuu as much as you like, but everyone who knows tora knows i'm talking the truth."
"the voting has now closed. i want to thank those who supported me, win or lose, i appreciate itgood luck to all the candidates who ran.i have said it a few times publicly. this is my last race for a few years, no matter what the results are. i have no idea how i will spend the next election season. probably sitting back, laughing, and throwing in the odd comment from the side.i think i have earned itagain, thank you allmmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"dang, i didn't realize it had opened yet."
"here's an image of a kitten to thank people that voted for me."
"fingers crossed for sab."
"i like your line of thinking.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"leave jita dude. and for the record, eve is not a pvp game. eve is, in actuality, a spacefaring society simulator with a nicely fleshed out story, addictive elements, and a very high challenge level, primarily because regardless of whether you are shooting boxes, zapping roids or undercutting another trader, you are effectively competing with human beings. in this regard, the game is crafted to cater to predatory behavior. outperforming others is the main motivation for most of what we do. killboards, wallets, shiny spacepixels, you name it. very few roam the stars aimlessly for very long. as i understand it, eve has one of the lowest new player retention scores of any long-running successful mmo.as in real life, this game hands you few cushions and even fewer second chances to actually make something of yourself. you either find a niche here... friends, commonalities, purpose... or you move on. you are perfectly capable of being a pure carebear, but the nature of most others will seldom mirror your own.i would even go so far as to say that the driving force behind the careers of all truly invested eve players is that they are the sort of people who ultimately want to either save the universe or destroy it.and as for the notion that eve was once an \"eden\" as it were, the older players here must surely remember the exploits of the guiding hand social club and the rest of this game's pioneer social engineers. so please, reconsider wearing those rose-colored glasses."
"for me, as for many other players, a visual part of the game experience is essential. i really liked the new model of the \"moa\" (it's amazing!) and its derivatives, but in the latest update of the model of the \"eagle\" was changed again. it added that awful hump and round antenna(?). it looks so appalling that excellent ship seems to me unsuitable.i would like to see the model \"eagle\" similar to original \"moa\", or re-designed to something like \"onyx\" which looks pretty good.my suggestion - if not completely return the \"eagle\" model without hump, then add this model as the skin in aurum-shop. so anyone like me wishing to fly on a beautiful and powerful t2 ship will be able to get it.p.s. sorry for my poor english"
"no politician responds to every mouth fart of the rabble. i should point out that voting is over, yet you're still full of blather and bombast. this must be really important to you. put on your powdered wig, grab your robert's rules, and throw some elbows."
"there's a major error in logic you should look up; its called \"begging the question\", and you should stop doing it. using dismissive language does not render your points valid when you lack the reasoning to back it up - and so far, you have not ebgaged in anything that might be described as reasoning. while we're at it, try to figure out which error of reasoning leads you to believe that i am replying necessarily because this is \"really important to me\"."
"i'm not trying to start an agrument with you lucas, nor did i read most of tora's and your debate, but that bit caught my eye. but isn't the fact that most highsec corps are inherently 'easy' targets a problem with how the game encourages play? like as such, people think highsec should be a safe pvp-free zone, or at least have the impression that it should be. and when they get wardec/ganked/whatever they over-react, they think they being abused, i would say it's the systems fault for not properly letting them know whats going on. i would deffently agree the wardec systems needs to be changed. i would say that all of the npe need to be heavily reworked, i'm glad ccp is working on that. #deletetheweak"
"lucas next time i go back to marmite/hisec come join me. i promise i'll find you ships that shoot back ;-)"
"in the end its all about \"risk versus profit\" and \"attack options versus counter options\". if you keep these two in balance, you get great content. and how to do this, well, not everyone agrees on how to do it"
"lol! so unless i'm for making wardecs more unbalanced than they already are, i'm not allowed an opinion? that's really not how it works bro. and war mechanics are very simple, so i doubt tora knows anything more than anyone else that's been here a while. was he even here for old style war decs?i have, you're just not reading before you leap in to defend him.lol, tora would be a disgrace to the csm. he favours his own playstyle at the expense of others and he's near incapable of a reasonable discussion. i guarantee you that i understand the game far more than you think. you attack me, but you know absolutely nothing about me.i'm not saying i know more about pvp. i'm saying i know as much about wardec mechanics because they are a very simple system and there's not many mechanics to know. and once again, you know nothing about me. i have plenty of experience with pvp both in empire and out of it. you presume too much.what's wrong with mechanics that are obviopusly unbalanced? i dunno buddy, maybe you should think about that. why does sov and jump mechanics need to be changed? the cfc is so effective at owning half of null, so who gives a rats ass about doing that? the answer is \"everyone else\" because us owning everything is a clear sign that the game is unbalanced. it's the same for you lot. a bunch of people who wouldn't know skilled pvp if it jumped up and bit them in the ass wardeccing thousands of noobs and farming them like they were npcs, that's a clear sign the game is unbalanced. i'm going to laugh my ass off when ccp announce changes and you implode with rage.and you'd lose 5 dollars there friend. i've not been decced by marmite even once. if i ever were, the 3 people i have in a corp wouldn't care since they don't undock - not ever. and i've made it totally clear why i've got this opinion about wardecs, i've stated reason i've made a point. you simply don't want to read it so you'll just sit there badly smacktalking as you always do.really though your opinion is irrelevant. ccp are already going to look at wardecs, and when they do your crying about how you should be allowed to farm newbies will mean nothing. you're incapable and objectively looking at the mecahnics so you'll likely have no say in what they change."
"*snip* please refrain from personal attacks. isd ezwal.how wrong can you be when you think every corporation and alliance in eve is one of stupids, bound to fail unless ccp holds their hands. how completely ridiculous you look by arguing that until you are blue in the face.how silly you are when bleating on and on about killing noobs in pods/shuttles as if that's a thing.newsflash veersie, most groups that interacted with marmite or the others got to have fun, got better from it and thrived. the small minority of debate club rejects that want to form a corp with their 7 alts to farm purples might not be doing so well but they, like you, were doomed to fail from the start.*snip* please refrain from personal attacks. isd ezwal.d."
"the problem is that you've got players who do nothing but pvp (the with guns kind as that's not all that pvp is) able to switch off concord and attack players who play in other ways. they stand no chance of fighting back because that's not what they do, and they don;t want to fight back as that's not what they enjoy. effectively what that means is that highsec favours pvp (with guns) to the point that it's impossible to have a decently sized non-pvp group (hence groups like red-frog and pro-synergy operating out of npc corps).as we all know that new players tend to stay longer if they are part of a group, it means that new players choosing to stay in highsec have the choice of joining a pvp group or playing alone or in a very small group. the fact that you're better off running a larger pve group in null than in highsec for safety reasons is a good sign that the security part of high security isn't effective. whether people want to accept it or not, high security is supposed to be safer. what people like tora push for is to maintain the status quo so they can continue to farm there with ease. it's good for them, but not for the game.in part, social groups will solve that, but i don't think it will be enough, and ccp knows this. the old wardec system had it's flaws, but it was more prohibitive of the mass farming style of wardecs people do now, so back when i started, large scale non-pvp highsec groups were actually viable. now they simply aren't. the problem is both the changes to wardec mechanics and the specialisation of groups like marmite. what risk do you have farming newbies and industrials? the problem is that it's not balanced right now. you're happy with that because you're on the winning side. you need to learn to be more objective. i'm happily watching ccp smash though my entire playstyle with a sledgehammer because i know and accept than null mechanics are out of balance. i don't necessarily agree with how they are doing everything, but i understand why it's needed.war decs will change and when they do you will be negatively affected. that's something you will have to learn to accept one day. or not, you know, your call. ccp will be pushing ahead regardless though because there's glaringly obvious balance issues there."
"maybe have newbies start in safe null-sec and when they are ready they can try evil high-sec ?i just call bull **** when i see people cry about how others are so evil to them, its unfair, its unbalanced, bla, bla, etc. you have exactly the same options as the attacker side. so accept you're weak or htfu and become better at what you do.if in an fps i get killed by a better skilled player, do i cry the game is unbalanced, broken, bla etc ? no i accept he is better in this game and try to become better myself. stop looking at others and start looking at what you can do yourself to become better at this game.the game must be broken because the pl is better at null-sec then marmites ? of course not. do we cry about that, hell no. we try to get better !"
"*snip* please refrain from personal attacks. isd ezwal.they stand no chance of fighting back-> yes they do. they don;t want to fight back-> hey, i don't want to farm isk but ccp isn't handing it to me for free because of that.what that means is that highsec favours pvp (with guns)-> eve = pvp game. pvp with guns, wits, social skills, number smarts, etc... but pvp. yes.hence groups like red-frog and pro-synergy operating out of npc corps-> they adapted. they win. you whine.as we all know that new players tend to stay longer if they are part of a group, it means that new players choosing to stay in highsec have the choice of joining a pvp group or playing alone or in a very small group-> you just refered to redfrog and pro-synergy; those are not very small are they? the fact that you're better off running a larger pve group in null than in highsec for safety reasons is a good sign that the security part of high security isn't effective.-> and yet, hisec is much more alive and is the place to be for pve and pvp?high security is supposed to be safer.-> it is. a lot. what are you trying to say? can't hear you through your tears.back when i started, large scale non-pvp highsec groups were actually viable. now they simply aren't.-> time for you to come off your high horse and smell the hisec, buddy. there are literally thousands of those groups active and thriving in hisec.what risk do you have farming newbies and industrials? -> we don't farm anything and everyone is a potential killer.you need to learn to be more objective-> project much?war decs will change and when they do you will be negatively affected.-> pretty sure they need to change but not how you think. corp hopping should go, that's a given and that will happen.d."
"or... ccp balance it out so highsec is what it was designed to be, rather than the broken system it is now. that involves both lowering rewards and tightening up restriction on wardecs.but it is unbalanced. do you unserstand that there is more in eve than just shooting each other? right now highsec corps are pretty much restricted to either being a bunch of alts or a group that wants to do pvp. corporations in highsec are uselss for a large scale non-pvp group. that's obviously a balance issue for gameplay styles that are not yours.and fps game is designed to be people shooting each other. if an fps game also had a pve section, but anyone who did that got immediately wiped out by one of the pvp guys, then yes, it would be out of balance.you problem seems to stem down to you not understanding that eve is a sandbox and that shooting each other with guns isn't a mandatory activity. someone who chooses not to shoot someone else should not be at a disadvantage automatically. that's not what eve is."
"i understand this. but what you don't seem to understand is that all these fun things in eve are interactive with each other. eve doesn't have a little corner somewhere, where you can safely pve, indy and not care about the pvp side of it."
"[quote=danalee] they stand no chance of fighting back-> yes they do.----> a non-pvp corp has a chance against a group that specialises in attacking non-pvp players? i think not. your alliance kb stats seem to agree with me there. they don;t want to fight back-> hey, i don't want to farm isk but ccp isn't handing it to me for free because of that.----> and yet you farm that isk by killing industrial players, through pvp. so you can play the way you want, but others aren't allowed to? how about we add a mecahnic where i can force your alliance to only be abel to engage in pve for a week, so you either have to pve or quit your corp. that's the equivalent of what wardecs do to non-pvp players. it forces them into a gameplay style they do not enjoy.what that means is that highsec favours pvp (with guns)-> eve = pvp game. pvp with guns, wits, social skills, number smarts, etc... but pvp. yes.----> wrong. eve is a sandbox virtual world. pvp has a big place in it, but there are other aspects of the game. that said, why should pvp with guns be more viable than other styles of play?hence groups like red-frog and pro-synergy operating out of npc corps-> they adapted. they win. you whine.----> they didn't adapt. they accepted the fact that a non-pvp group can't run a large corporation in the current broken mechanics and they fell back to npc corps. newsflash: if the best course of action is to use an npc corp then the mechanics is broken, since that should never be the best choice. npc corps should be a last resort, not the best choice.as we all know that new players tend to stay longer if they are part of a group, it means that new players choosing to stay in highsec have the choice of joining a pvp group or playing alone or in a very small group-> you just refered to redfrog and pro-synergy; those are not very small are they?----> they aren't operating as proper corporations though. they have to run as npc alts because to do otherwise is suicide. the fact that you're better off running a larger pve group in null than in highsec for safety reasons is a good sign that the security part of high security isn't effective.-> and yet, hisec is much more alive and is the place to be for pve and pvp?----> it's more alive due to the game as a whole being more alive than it used to be. and let's face it, most people playing in highsec are npc alts or in personal corps.high security is supposed to be safer.-> it is. a lot. what are you trying to say? can't hear you through your tears.----> it is in some ways, not in others. a corporation that doesn't focus purely on pvp is safer in any other section of space than highsec.back when i started, large scale non-pvp highsec groups were actually viable. now they simply aren't.-> time for you to come off your high horse and smell the hisec, buddy. there are literally thousands of those groups active and thriving in hisec.----> ok, name 5 large scale (let's say 30 unique players) non-pvp groups that operates entirely in highsec and doesn't use alts to avoid wardecs. should be easy since there are thousands.war decs will change and when they do you will be negatively affected.-> pretty sure they need to change but not how you think. corp hopping should go, that's a given and that will happen.----> do you mean corp hopping or do you mean corp rolling? not that it matters, either way they will both stay or be replaced with equivalent functionality."
"i'm not playing that game mang...you seem to know a lot about me lucas, nothing is true but don't let that stop you.for isk, i've got an alt who runs lvl 4 missions. in a corp with 7 other people. nice people. never had any trouble.i don't make isk with pvp. it just doesn't work like that for me... don't know why you would think that.when you say pve is safer in low and null, i'm sure you are joking... at least, tell me you are joking?did you mean pve is safer when you are in a corp/alliance/nullbloc that has pvp players protecting the borders?than you are correct. and prove my point.check here if you are looking for a good hisec industrie or exploration or incursion group, it's a good start.thanks!if you have time, pray tell; how would you change wardecs?d."
"and i get that, i just think the current ability for a group such as your to force hundreds of corps into having to fight back or hide only serves to strip away fun from those groups to favour you. an industry group has no interest in fighting with guns, and they usually have no skill in it either. wardecs as they currently stand encourage you to pick the weakest target to make the most profit. this means that as the system currently stands the best choice for highsec industrial groups is to not exists in an official capacity. i honestly don't know how you can possibly look at how groups like red-frog are forced to operate to survive and can't see that there's a glaring balance issue there. that leads me to believe that you can see there's an obvious balance issue, but because you benefit from it being out of balance you simply deny it. the thing is, \"interactive\" is a broad term. it's not just shooting people, and yet that's all you seem to recognise. people like you and danalee can sit there and go on about the carebears and say htfu as much as you want, but people play eve for different reasons and in different ways. they shouldn't be forced to play it the way you want just because you want to force them to.even if you do make it onto the csm (which i doubt) ccp are likely to change wardecs in ways that you probably won't like. at the end of the day they are providing for the whole playerbase, not just what benefit your group. at some point you will actually have to put some actual effort in for the masses of rewards that you reap."
"wow, a whole 7 people? apologies though, i thought you were a half-competent pvper. you should be able to make considerably more than level 4 missions when you are farming haulers.i didn't say \"pve is safer\". learn to read. i said operating a large scale pve group is safer. and it is. if you tried to run a 100 man industrial corp in highsec you'd be permadecced by like 5 groups.lol, so tl;dr, while you say there are thousands of large pve groups operating in highsec, you can't name 5."
"we. don't. farm. anything. it doesn't work like that. try it, you'll know. level 4 missions make solid isk and don't force me to suckup to some spacemonkey scrublord to be allowed to farm in nullbear land.only 5 wardecs? if you'd try to run a 100 man industrial corp in lowsec, you won't be able to undock. ever.in null, you wouldn't be able to get the corp started in the first place because you need to interact with the locals to do it.your premise is this magic 100 man corp doesn't want to do that. think about it man, i know you're pretty smart, you figure it out.i can name more than that, we've wardecced a lot of them, some even gave us bloody noses. others made a deal. others lost ships and carried on, others don't exist anymore. which is all good for the game.i'm waiting for your magic change that will make hisec better for everyone by the way.d."
"for a quick win, i'd restrict outgoing aggressive wars to 5 or 10. this would stop mass wardec farming.long term i'd remove the entire system as it currently stands and replace it with a method for taking short term control of sections of space so pve activity within it pays you - you get a cut of market fees, taxes, repair bills, etc. the aim would be to give pvp groups something to fight over while giving pve players ways to support the groups they want to support by playing the way they want. one of the best examples of pvp in highsec working as it should was when rvb were taking pocos and the mercs all went after them. two way fighting is far better at generating meaningful combat than the one sided turkey shoots that wardecs currently promote.i wouldn't do it like sov, with structure shoots and timers, it'd be much quicker, so you literally just fly over and stake a claim and as long as noone is contesting that, you win control straight away for a day or so. if someone wants to contest it they fly over and do so and then both groups are free to fire on each other at will. i suppose it would be like a cross between fw and sov, but faster paced."
"i like that long term idea. it's good.there is cause for interaction. add something to gently but steadily move players away from npc corps and you are golden.restricting outgoing wardecs is gamey and will be gamed, especially when combined with the current other corp mecanics.i make corp, wardec 10 other corps becuase they taunted me or something and they all drop and reform corp. nah, let's not the temporarely claiming of systems... yeah, love it.d.ps.: we are actually having fun with rvb again"
"of course you don't, you just mass wardec corps and destroy their ever replenishing industrial ships for loot. oh wait, that is farming.and i don't farm in nullbear land. like level 45 missions it's peasant isk. i make most of my isk trading in highsec, and i enhance that with production. the reason i'm in a null group is so that i can readily engage in large scale pvp and run some trade in null sec.i'll have to take your word for it in low, since nobody lives there because it's terribad. as for null, there are loads of pve groups. parts of the cfc are pure pve, as are most of the renters. yes you need to interact, but you don't need to do it with guns.so start naming. ones that still exists would generally be good as it would only prove my point more if you names groups that couldn't survive."
"glad you like it. i don't want to see pvp gone form highsec, i just want to see it have meaning and not push out players who play in other ways.gaming that system by the way is simple to fix. if a corp disbands cancel the war and refund the fee if no kills were made. but like i say, that's only what i'd consider as a quick win to help corps survive a bit longer rather than a long term change. long term there would be no restriction on how many areas you contest at a time. if you're big enough to dominate the whole of the force, more power to you."
"let's focus on this, i believe it to be the key to a common ground.you say: you don't need to interact with guns in nullsec. yes?i'm saying that in hisec, you don't need to do that either.in null, everyone can shoot you = more dangerous. less options.in hisec, you have to announce 24hours upfront you intend to shoot someone = less dangerous, gives you more options.agreed?d.edit: uh ow, tora disagrees with us, lucas and still i hope he gets into csm because i know him and i know he's not like you think he is at all. he's an open minded, smart cookie that will try and influence our sandbox in a positive way with an as large as possible playerbase in mind."
"i think we spend way more on ccp war fees, then we get back in loot. loot fairy hates us. if it was just for the loot, i would stop war deccing people. have you any idea how much we spend on war dec fees a week ? its not like ganking where you try to hit high value ships. your war ideas sound horrible to me. if i wanted to do sov things, i would have moved full time to null-sec. it would kill the entire meta gaming. it would prevent people to go after the rich incursion players, etc. it would kill the economic war far. we often work for industrials who want us to kill their competition.did you know there are many high-sec alliances who work together with mercenary alliances and who hardly care about wars ? those are the smart ones who do get it."
"if you're only looking at it mechanically, then yes - but if you look at it in context of how it actually works out:- there are less people in null as the population is lower, meaning intel is better and less people are around to attack you in the first place- to get to you they have to fly thorough space where they also can be attacked- looting your wrecks is considerably harder in null so you are less likely to be farmed for incomeall in all, if you're in highsec and don't plan on doing pvp, you're better off either in an npc corp, or if you do missions in a solo corp. it's sad that that is the case, but there it is."
"i'd guess at 20-30b a week. and let's look at your kills. 318b is what zkillboards lists for march.so if your war decs are 30b/week, that works out to 4.3b/day, so for the 12 days of march so far that's 51.6b. that means if the loot fairy drops at least 16.6%, you're in profit, and that's not even including how much you are paid by clients for those wardecs.if you aren't making isk, you are doing something very wrong.and of course my ideas sound horrible to you. you want easy risk-free kills against noobs. you already can't go after the rich incursion players, since they can disband and reform their single player corp with ease."
"your calculations are wrong in so many ways, i'm not even going to explain it to you (hint, eve, ships, poco's, posses, pods, loot stealing, splitting the loot, srp, etc etc) . who are you to decide if we re doing things wrong or right ? you know how arrogant this sounds ? i don't care if you don't get it, but at least don't pretend to do so. you're also avoiding all points i made why your systems is terribad. and i kick myself for keep trying to educate you on high-sec wars. i give up....pointless."
"crazy maths for the win...even yesterday, i farmed lots of implants from a pod, awesome loot!... maybe that was in my dreams...we all know exploded ship = loot... no? what? is it only the mods/cargo that has a chance to drop... oh.we all know mercs never loose a ship, right? what?! those blinged out boats get exploded just as easily as the targets? ouch...we know in hisec there are not much players stealing loot, right... like in jita, everyone has plenty time to loot their kills.... no? darnit.pocos drop awesome loot than?not even that... jeebus... what happened here? let's all go to null and not interact with anyone to do pve!d."
"quick and dirty rough calcs, they are just as wrong as your claim that you don't make isk from the loot drops, but they point to the truth. i can guarantee if we did a data pull from zkb and looked at only dropped loot, you'd still be in profit over your war costs. you'll deny it of course because you want to put across this idea that you're hard done by. you don't want your insanely easy playstyle made more difficult, and you'll say anything you can to keep it as it is, even if it your ridiculously laughable claims that you don't make profit. you are far far far worse than any carebear has ever been, because you not only want your playstyle to be easy, but you want it that way at the direct detriment of other people's playstyles."
"ask gevlon to calculate it. it wont be perfect, but at least much better then most others would do."
"its not even close to quick and dirty. my rough calculations are based on experience and wallets which go down. why do you think most marmites have more then one char ? it's to make isks. your calculations are based on nothing...... and it shows.seriously mate, make the calculation..... i dare you. i'll send you a fedo and a quafe if you re right."
"dude, are you seriously attempting to claim that marmite is operating at a loss? sorry, but there's absolutely no way i believe that to be true. you guys are terrible, but you're not that terrible."
"yes thats what i am saying. we are not in it for the isks. if i wanted isks i would go do incursions, industry, trading, etc. if we were i might even agree with you.but i am ending this discussion, as its pointless. i tried to educate you many times, but you just dont get it or want to get it."
"the best part is that he's yelling \"sandbox!\" while doing so, while trying to actively take away player freedom.*snip* please refrain from personal attacks. isd ezwal."
"tora bushido wrote:your calculations are wrong in so many ways, i'm not even going to explain it to you (hint, eve, ships, poco's, posses, pods, loot stealing, splitting the loot, srp, etc etc) . who are you to decide if we re doing things wrong or right ? you know how arrogant this sounds ? i don't care if you don't get it, but at least don't pretend to do so. you're also avoiding all points i made why your systems is terribad. and i kick myself for keep trying to educate you on high-sec wars. i give up....pointless.lucas has that effect on people...i find it interesting that often carebears, and whatever lucas is, often conflate the value of their stuff with how resistant to disruption it should be. they assume that because they paid or grinded the equivalent of 1b isk for that freighter, only an equal or greater amount of isks of ships should be required to destroy it. or that a 200m isk hulk should somehow be immune to a 10m isk catalyst otherwise it is \"not fair\". or that being able to counter-bribe concord into ending the wardec is somehow a good game mechanic that will facilitate player interaction. that is not how eve and its war economy, not to mention the sandbox, works. things need to be destroyed everywhere in eve, hopefully in a hilarious or entertaining fashion, and therefore it is your responsibility to protect them. their value has only a tangential relationship to how effective they are in a particular facet of the competitive sandbox.anyways tora, i just wanted to say that i put you quite high on my ballots in part because of sabriz's recommendation to do so, but also because you have clearly demonstrated that you get what eve is all about. i trust you to defend the sandbox from those who wish to turn eve into some single player mining simulator or missioning game, and will champion gameplay that facilitates interactions between players like wardecs and suicide ganking that is engaging and entertaining for all sides. ccp knows these tools and the interactions they force are key to the success of the game (see below) so it would be good to have a highsec-focused csm member like you on board who gets this as well. best of luck!ccp rise wrote:we have tried and tried to validate the myth that griefing has a pronounced affect on new players - we have failed. the strongest indicators for a new player staying with eve are associated with social activity: joining corps, using market and contract systems, pvping, etc. isolating players away from the actual sandbox seems very contrary to what we would like to accomplish."
"kaarous aldurald wrote:the best part is that he's yelling \"sandbox!\" while doing so, while trying to actively take away player freedom.*snip* please refrain from personal attacks. isd ezwal..balancing a mechanic isn't removing freedom. i'm not saying they should take away the whole mechanic, but as it currently works it's shockingly unbalanced.black pedro wrote:i find it interesting that often carebears, and whatever lucas is, often conflate the value of their stuff with how resistant to disruption it should be. they assume that because they paid or grinded the equivalent of 1b isk for that freighter, only an equal or greater amount of isks of ships should be required to destroy it. or that a 200m isk hulk should somehow be immune to a 10m isk catalyst otherwise it is \"not fair\". or that being able to counter-bribe concord into ending the wardec is somehow a good game mechanic that will facilitate player interaction. that is not how eve and its war economy, not to mention the sandbox, works. things need to be destroyed everywhere in eve, hopefully in a hilarious or entertaining fashion, and therefore it is your responsibility to protect them. their value has only a tangential relationship to how effective they are in a particular facet of the competitive sandbox.where have i stated that exactly? what i've said here is that the fact that it's ludicrously easy for highsec wardeccers to make large scale non-pvp corps in highsec extinct is an obvious balance issue. apparently i must be wrong because tora wants to keep easy gameplay. there's no way he's being biased and favouring his playstyle over others or anything, and his alliances 95% efficiency is obviously a sign that they are the greatest pvpers in the game, not that farming kills is too easy.i have no problem with risk in this game, i have no problem with aggression, but the thing i hate most in this game is people who have stupidly easy pvp, yet claim to be more deserving of benefits from ccp because they shoot white squares that pop easily rather than red crosses that pop easily.black pedro wrote:ccp rise wrote:we have tried and tried to validate the myth that griefing has a pronounced affect on new players - we have failed. the strongest indicators for a new player staying with eve are associated with social activity: joining corps, using market and contract systems, pvping, etc. isolating players away from the actual sandbox seems very contrary to what we would like to accomplish.and yet here you are, defending unbalanced mechanics which prevent players being able to form up large scale highsec corps that aren't purely pvp focused. wardecs in their current form contribute heavily to players staying in npc corps and thus being isolated from the actual sandbox."
"\"i'm not arguing to remove freedom!\" *in the same post, argues to remove freedom*you astonish me. that's not a good thing."
"lol? *snip* please refrain from personal attacks. isd ezwal. apparently when you way \"freedom\" what you mean is \"absolutely everything must maintain the exact same status quo for eternity otherwise freedom is breached\". if that's the case, then yes, i guess by balancing wardecs so they aren't stupidly easy, the freedom of players to farm newbies with great ease is removed, and i'm ok with that.at the end of the day, if that's the way you see it, then every patch that affects the eve client is the removal of freedom. in tiamat 1.5, the freedom for me to have crackling audio in large fleet fights was removed. those monsters."
"haha, you aren't aware that you are the only one in here claiming toras idea will make it worser?we are in fact several peoples here pointing out that your arguments are wrong. deal with it.your dumb agenda is something you can take elsewhere.but we have with several peoples in here pointed out that your reasonings or arguments to that are flawed and bad. if you can say alone that yo uare right, then we for sure can break that argument by saying we are several peoples in here that says we are right to.i attack you in the same way as you attack several peoples at the same time in here. you are worser because i'm attacking just you while you are attacking several peoples in here no matter what they are saying.now, please be silence or at least get some fqacts before you comes with dumb arguments that doesn't hold water.yes you do, because you seems to be the god of how empire pvp and war dec works and tells us (who do those 2 things daily and have done it for years) that we are wrong. you have to do alot of pvp in empire before you can fully understand the whole things behind empire pvp and war decs in general.yes i know some things on how manufacturing works, but as i don't do it, i can't say i knows alot about it. same applies to you. you don't do pvp and can't say how empire pvp and war decs works as pvp is a huge part of it. what you think you know is just the surface of what empire pvp and war decs is. before you can go deeper into it, you have to do pvp in empire before you can say more about it. that's a fact.yes, there are things in eve that are unbalanced. and tora is here to change some of the things in empire to the better no matter how little you like it or not. everyone that fully understands empire pvp and war decs sees that the changes tora want's is going to make a better empire pvp and war dec system in eve............"
"no, i don't lose 5 dollars. it's just a lame excuse. or maybe you haven't directly been war dec'ed by marmites, but i'm pretty sure you have been suicided by some marmites some times.but hey, let's wait for the next excuse that naaaah no, you have never been attacked or killed by marmites. you in fact reminds me of this person.in the same way as your opinions here are irrelevant. we are like i said several peoples here that disagree with you while you are the only one in here that doesn't agree with tora. so it's not hard to figure out on who's right here.ofc ccp is going to look at the war decs and empire pvp in the same way as tora is looking to improve it. it's pretty obvious that there will soon be some changes to those things. but what you are forgetting is that tora have tons of supports on his ideas while no one agrees with you in here.so, now go troll elsewhere."
"and yes, if you are not aware, i was part of those amazing fights. just watch the video under if you haven't done it already."
"i'm not the only one that's stated that in this thread and certainly not the only once that's stated that wardecs are balanced in favour of the wardec groups overall. and what we have here is several of the \"usual suspects\" in here telling me i'm wrong because their misrepresented version of my argument is wrong. other than proving that i'm on to a point that you consider significant, it proves nothing. when you have a reasonable argument for why you think it's ok that groups like red frog are unable to create actual corporations and have to instead work from npc corps, let me know.in addition, danalee has asked me what i feel should be done instead and even agreed with the rough idea i threw together in 10 minutes.but you haven't. you've just told me i'm wrong and said it must be so because tora does lot's of wardecs. the fact that he is on the aggressive side of wardecs makes it *more likely* that his opinions are biased considerably in favour of wardeccers and that his views are subjective, not less.i'm not attacking anyone. i'm attacking the ideas and principles put forward by a csm candidate for there obvious bias. you're automatically assuming that in my 10 years of experience i've missed out on the basic mechanics that make up wardecs. further, you are resorting to launching personal attacks at me, calling me stupid, dumb, etc. it's the generally expected response when i challenge players like yourself so i'm really not bothered by it, but it doesn't get you anwywhere.at no point have i claimed to be the god of anything, you're projecting your opinions of what i'm saying as fact, that doesn't make it so. you're also still making the same wrong assumption that i don't do pvp. i've been involved in highsec wardecs, i've taken part in faction warfare, and am in the process of training a character to run in spectre fleet. i'm not claiming to have run thousands of wardecs, but then that's not a prerequisite of understanding how the mechanics work.and the thing is, being an outside to a process gives an objective view of it. tora's opinions are clouded by his own wants. he favours ideas that benefit him. take for example the dreadnaughts in highsec idea. that's obviously going to benefit aggressive wardeccers allowing them to contest structures more easily. a smaller group isn;t going to stand a chance of running a dreadnaught without attracting a lot of attention from the likes of marmite.change the to the better for him. other playstyles will suffer under nearly all of the changes tora has suggested. he wants \"evil\", and by that he means he wants it to be even easier for wardec groups to dominate hundreds of corps at a time and even less possible for them the evade. i don't disagree that what he wants will make empire wardecs better for the aggressors, that's obviously true. but the system is already unbalanced in favour of the aggressors, so i don;t believe that making it more unbalanced in their favour is a good idea."
"nightmarex, you are missing out, we went for round 2 but allied with rvb (and uhurt) now against russian mercs, it's the bomb!d."
"nope, marmites have literally done nothign to me ever. i know you don;t understand that, i know that in your mind for me to disagree with wardecs it *must* be because at some point something bad has happened to me, it simply isn't true. i look at mechanics objectively, and the way wardecs are implemented is not balanced. it really is that simple. whether you believe it or not is irrelevant.well apparently my opinions are relevant enough to warrant responses from at least 4 different people, and to cause yourself and danalee to throw several personal attacks at me.and lol, so in your eyes the person who is right is the one that has a couple of people on his side throwing around insults? one in marmites and one ex-marmites? yes yes, a very unbiased set of opinions. obviously tora must be perfectly correct - even though you're yet to explain to me why groups like red-frog are unable to create a proper corporation to run operations out of without getting permadecced and destroyed - an obvious sign that the system is unbalanced in favour of pvp players.ccp are not going to make the types of changes tora wants. they want to reduce wardecs as they are currently keeping people from forming corps in highsec that aren't purely pvp based which in turn damages player retention. mass farming of war targets the way current highsec mers do is simply bad for business."
"no one have denied that the war decs aren't in favour of the war dec groups. we have simply pointed out that some changes for the better are better than nothing. and tora's ideas will make it better, that's the point. but maybe not good enough for you.maybe i haven't done that, but others in here have pointed out flaws with 'your' reasons to deny tora's ideas. that's more of the point here.yes, you are in fact attacking some peoples in here. when a person like you with pretty much zero experience in war decs and empire pvp claims to know more about it than others who have done it for years and every day. you are pretty much slapping them in the face in a bad way.so it's a way of attacking someone with the real experience in this.yes, you are in fact claiming to know more about the mechanics behind the war dec and empire pvp system as you think someone with alot of experience in this are wrong while you claim you think you know what's better. there is only you your self that think your arguments or ideas are better than those who have experience in this.and this is basicly the issue here with you. you can't discuss without thinking you know better how to solve something you have zero experience in.and to the last thing. what you fail to see is that tora is the only csm candidate to bring up some new ideas that will make empire pvp and war decs a little better. ofc, his ideas isn't 100% optimal, but they are way better than not having ideas on how to change them to the better.this is the reason why i support tora.again, this is nothing more than just your own opinion. i'm pretty sure tora's ideas is a good way to go as many others who actually does empire pvp and war decs on a daily basis supports him.the more peoples who supports him the better his ideas actually are. now, find me the number on how many that doesn't support tora in getting empire pvp and war decs to be better here?good luck."
"haha, i don't think anyone in here believes your lies about that. there is a pretty obvious reason why you are so mad at marmite and tora.and how many of those 4 agrees with you compared to the others in this topic who agrees with tora here?go figure.again there are alot of things in eve that are unbalanced, but we have to take one thing at a time. and tora is like i have said is bringing out some new ideas to improve empire pvp and war dec in general. if you don't agree, then fine, but his case shows good support from this topic, so it's not hard to see who is right.hey, are you ccp?oh god, the fact that you think you knows so much that you think you are ccp to is even more flattering and laughable.no you aren't ccp, so stop with the agenda that ccp is not gonna look at tora's ideas, because every ideas that the csm candidates have is going to be looked at."
"hmmm, nice. do you have any battlereports from that?"
"so wait, you agree that they are unbalanced in favour of aggressors and yet see no problem in making them even better for the aggressors?but they haven't. they've literally just said i'm wrong, called me a carebear and told me to htfu. the classic responses from people who have no actual response.once again, i didn't claim to know more and once again i don't have zero experience, that's your projection. at no point have i attacked anyone, and if you feel i have, report the post.no, i'm not. i've even stated multiple time the exact opposite of that. and no, tora is not the only csm candidate to propose ideas to improve wardecs. he's the only one to propose making them even *more* unbalanced in favour of wardeccers, but at least a couple of others have discussed wardec mechanics in their campaigns.and great, support tora. if you want things to be more unbalanced in your favour then it's a good idea to support him, i'm not saying it's not. what i'm saying is i don't support him because i support game balance.so you agree with what i said then, that toras ideas benefit his playstyle? that's all i'm saying here. wardecs are already unbalanced in favour of aggressors, and his ideas unbalance them even more to make things even better for wardeccers."
"who cares? i'm unaffected by what you think is my reasoning for supporting game balance. if you want to think it's because of marmites, then by all means proceed to think that.hahahahahahahahahaha. so yes, you honestly believe that a marmite leader having other marmite players agreeing with him makes him automatically right? that is amazing. what's even funnier is in your previous post you even agree with me that the game is unbalanced in favour of wardeccers.no, i'm not ccp. i have however read what ccp and the existing csm have put out in regards to wardecs. it's quite obvious they are seen as a barrier to the npe, and it's not hard to see where ccp will go when they decide to look at wardecs. i very much doubt that will involved making them easier and adding dreadnaughts"
"read one more time on what i'm saying. i'm saying the current system is somewhat favouring the aggressor over the defender. that's why i said i supports tora's ideas on making it better so it doesn't have to be like that.they have. you are so much obsessed that you know this things so much that their arguments towards you goes undetected to you.yes, the way you claim others ideas are bad and your ideas are better, even though the others have way more experience in this is a way of attacking. maybe if you have had some proven experience in this matter, it would be taken another way. but it's not. you don't have enough experience in this to dig deep enough into the real matter of the mechanics behind empire pvp and war decs.making it more unbalanced is only your own argument. can you explein why they gets more unbalanced with tora's ideas?no, i don't agree on that. i agree that i want to see some positive changes to empire pvp and those who takes part of it no matter what the ideas are. those who gets war deced will also be a part of empire pvp, so it's for both parts.all i'm saying is that i'm positive to see some better changes independent of what the changes are for those who takes part of empire wars and war decs."
"we cares, because it's sooooo obvious on why you are mad at marmite and tora. there can't be any other reasons behind it.living in a bubble are you?if you looks outside of that bubble, you will realize that there are way more than just marmites that agrees with tora.and no, i'm saying that the war dec system today isn't optimal and are somewhat favouring the attackers over the defenders. however, there are many other things aswell that are favouring someone over others. this is eve and welcome to eve.then stop claiming that you are ccp the way you say things then. you are quite alot on the defence on saying big words about how things are without realizing that you are a noob about this case."
"usually i don't get involved but i just wanna put this here for the lols"
"by making it favour them more?for example... ?sigh... claiming someone's idea, which you have agreed improves the game for aggressors, is beneficial to the aggressors in a system which is already unbalanced in their favour - which you also agree - is not claiming to know more than them about the system. it's simply reading their idea, understanding it's impacts and responding with criticism. i really don't care if you want to keep claiming i have no experience (which is fundamentally wrong) and thus that i am not allowed an opinion (which is also wrong). i'll continue to hold my views and no matter how many times you attempt to insult me, those views will remain.do you honestly need me to explain why adding dreadnoughts to highsec would favour wardec groups over pve groups?my ideas offer positive changes for empire pvp. they offer direct income from pve players by encouraging pvp groups to engage each other, thus negating the need to farm newbies or run pve when you are interested in pvp. so apparently no, what you are \"positive to see\" is changes which make your playstyles easier, more rewarding and less risky. so you're a carebear."
"lol, there \"can't\" be any other reasons, except the actual reason, which i actually gave you. look mate, i'm not going to get into this with you. if you want to believe it, go ahead. i'll continue on in reality.i apologise, there's also an ex-marmite (and ex-afterbirth) players and a personal troll who follows me literally everywhere disagreeing with anything i say. good show.and yes, this is eve. the game where the developers are obviously looking at improving the npe and balancing out of balance mechanics. my playstyle is being nuked, and i accept that because it's good for the game. when they get to wardecs your tears will be delicious.i didn;t claim that, not once. go ahead and find out where i stated that i was ccp. i simply stated what ccp have put across to the playerbase over the recent few months. wardec changes will be incoming. do you honestly think they are going to make them favour the aggressors more and push even more players into npc corps? honestly?what lols would those be? i have an idea that it's to do with a lack of comprehension on your part - no offense."
"i have one main toon, go search my kill board for marmite. i don't think there is anything there.they certainly haven't done anything to me directly that i remember or care about.however, i remember what it was like being new to the game and having groups that used the war dec mechanics to their advantage against easy targets, to farm kills. i remember what it is like having the fat kids sitting, waiting around the corner in jita to take your lunch money.taking advice from tora on war declaration mechanics would be like hens taking hutch building designs from a fox. have to admire that honesty though."
"that's just your own words. no, i'm looking at both sides.maybe go back and read what the experts with tons of experience in this are telling you?i haven't said that i'm supporting to make it better for the aggressors while leaving the defenders in the dust. i'm in support for making it better for both parts. and many of tora's ideas does that.so you think the pvpers is the only one that could use dreads if they are allowed in empire?what differences does dreads make it from battleships that every pveers can use to?if i can bring a dread to instapop a pveers battleship then i for sure can bring 5x vindicators that will do the same anyways.ok, so you are again using big words by telling your ideas are best and the other ideas from others are bad. again, you don't have experience in this.maybe some of your ideas are good, i'm not denying it, but when you deny others idea to be bad while others are telling you that some of your ideas also are bad and don't want to see that, then i'm not gonna bother to talk with a guy who obviously are in full circle masturbation mode about how great and badass your ideas is."
"so why are you so mad at marmite?like everyone else or most of the others in here disagrees with you. it seems that you haven't figured out that yet.you said that ccp wouldn't even look at tora's idea in a way that would make it sounds like your some kind of a hidden ccp member. it's the way you say things that makes it looks like you are telling things like your some kind of a god."
"well that appears to not be the case. how exactly do toras ideas benefit players defending against wardecs? how is giving marmite access to dreadnoughts not going to severely damage the ability for a pve player to hold a pos in high sec?but they don't, and that's my point. his ideas favours him. some have no impact on him and still detriment other players, like his idea to force miners to play minigames in order to mine.i think any smaller group or non-pvp group would get crushed if they attempted to field a dreadnought, while groups like marmite would be able to more quickly smash through structures.except other aren't telling me my ideas are bad. danalee liked the idea i put forward. you've seemingly not read it. as for tora's ideas, i'm not even saying they are outright bad ideas, they are simply favouring an already overpowered group and thus i don't feel would benefit the group as a whole. they would definitely benefit wardeccers quite obviously."
"i'm not, i have no more a feeling toward marmite than i do deadly fingertips or poh. it just so happens that out of all the wardeccer groups it;s marmite's leader that has launched a csm campaign based on making the game even more unbalanced in their favour.lol, read back through these posts. it's marmites, ex-marmites and well known trolls disagreeing. hardly what i would call objective opinions. that said, you've agreed with parts of what i've said - such as aggressors being overpowered in wardecs - and so has danalee - such as my idea for change. well then the fault lies with your ability to understand english. i'll put it more plainly. based on ccps recent decisions, the information released by ccp and the csm, and ccps stated aims, i find it unlikely that they would be in support of tora's ideas as they would detract further from the npe and further block access to meaningful social contact. please note: i'm not ccp, and last i checked i'm not god (but i run a close second).better?"
"again, the pveers usually have tons of isk. what makes it that you think that the pveers can't field tons of dreads to counter the dreads we are using to shoot the pos with?if we can, then everyone else can.they don't only according to you. look at all of the others who actually agrees with tora. what about them?they are wrong according to you because you think you are better than all of them?and you think the pveers with pos'es would just sit there and do nothing if they also can use dreads?ofc the pveers will unleash their dreads aswell to fight us.not only that, but if i'm deciding that i want to kill a poco or whatever in empire, i will kill it no matter what. the only differences from battleships to dreads is how long time it takes to kill a poco / pos.so is there any differences here?ok, so you think all of your ideas are good just because danalee did agree on one of your ideas?way to overhype your self dude."
"yes you are. you are mad at marmite because i'm pretty sure they are preventing some of your alts to have a steady income of isk. they are disrupting you in some ways.yeah, danalee did agree with you on one thing, so that makes everyone in here agreeing with you, amrite?again, that's according to you on how you looks at eve.all that matters is that tora have some good supports here and i'm pretty sure that he will get pretty high up on the list of the csm candidates. but i'm not saying he will get through as a real csm in the end. i'm just saying that by looking at this topic, he for sure have alot of supports."
"i'm sure pve players will do really well in their shiny new dreads against career pvp players. lol.but objectively they favour him. you've even stated yourself that they improve the game for pvp players.i think that as usual the pve players would be powerless to fight back against career pvp players. the only thing that saves a lot of their poses right now is that you can't be bothered to grind them down. reads would change that.that's not at all what i said, i'm just pointing out that when you keep saying that everyone's disagreeing that you're obviously wrong."
"wrong. grow up. believe it or not, many eve players actually care about balance in the game. that's all this is.again, not what i said. once again you misrepresent me.no, that's according to what ccp themselves have said. educate yourself before screeching on.all that matters is that tora is a terrible idea for a candidate if you care about game balance, and his ideas are badly though out and favour his playstyle. most of the support he has are his alliance and alliance that do what he does, simply beacuse they too support ideas that unbalance the game further in their favour. anyway, i'm done arguing with you. as always you are just going to repeated lie, misrepresent ideas and personally attack me. we're not going to get anywhere constructive with this as it's impossible for anyone to have a constructive discussion with you. so good day sir."
"i have removed some replies to edited out parts of the posts they replied to.also please keep in mind that this is a csm campaign thread and not a general discussion or crime & punishment one.isd ezwal community communication liaisons (ccls)"
"like they will do any better in battleships against career pvp players now?there is no difference.yeah, i support to have a better pvp and war dec system in empire that reflects both sides.and you think it's any different now with battleships?again, what differences does it make when career pvpers still have an edge over the pveers today with battleships anyways?show me how many peoples that does agree with you in here and then shows us on how many that does agree with tora here. there is a huge difference here.i do that aswell, but we still have to take one thing at a time. you can't expect tora to just put out a complete list of things that will rebalance everything with empire pvp and war decs in one go."
"well, it's how it soulds like when you claim someone agrees with you. it sounds like you nailed it and that you are right about all of your ideas when some few peoples agrees with some few things with your ideas.i kinda want to see the source of what they have said about that. infact, ccp are open to most ideas as long as it gives some balances and improves the games.tora is a bad candidate to you, fine. but do we care?the only thing we cares about is to let empire pvp and war decs in general to be better than it currently is. yes, when i say that, this applies both to the aggressor and the defenders."
"kitties! also +1 for sabriz. hope you make man, #deletetheweak"
"thanks for all the support and votes"
"bongmong pls."
"ccp has already brought that up as a possibility: that legion, if it's greenlighted, would be shipping ambulation gameplay in the eve universe. the engine they're using certainly supports that kind of game well, and they already know how to connect it to the spaceship game, so it could happen.maybe not soon. maybe not all at once (legion will probably start where dust ends, as a lobby shooter with a persistent world). but it's a path of less resistance than attempting incarna/wod in space over again."
"this has always been a pvp game. you always compete with other pilots whether it's for resources, trading or even direct conflict.it does not matter if you are a high sec miner or industrialist in your first month of play or you fly super capitals in null or worm hole space. the prospect of losing a ship you had to train hard to fly and earn the isk to buy or manufacture is an eventuality every pilot knows whenever he or she undocks.how you play the game and what your end goals are. is entirely up to you. if you dislike pvp, stay in high sec. you will still lose ships from other players however it won't nearly be so volatile as low, null or worm hole space.you can run missions in high sec, mine, manufacture and trade to your heart's content. however, you are restricted to what you can do and how well you do it by your training time. playing more often can improve your talent as a capsuleer. but it will not improve your skills unlocked at all. becoming good at whatever you choose to do will require time."
"for what is worth, i would have voted for you. sadly i am lame and was not aware of the election until today : d"
"there is so much optimism on the forums that we can actually change each other's minds."
"you're welcome to your opinion but you're wrong. a csm candidate needs to be able to answer difficult questions and so far all you've done is pretend they don't exist. i have raised some serious concerns about your ability to perform as a valued and contributing member of the csm and you dismiss them due to them being loaded questions? at the risk of sounding harsh you really need to toughen up, a csm elected member needs to be above such petty dismissals and should give genuine questions a genuine answer.all i was looking from you was a bit of background on how the previous experience has helped shape you into the person you are today and that you're better for it (and why) but i get called a troll instead... bravo."
"yeah... see i don't think you actually read the op."
"have you ever been in a town hall meting or a panel debate? because i have, and i can tell you from personal experience, when you're in the panel, when you get asked questions by potential voters, you do need to answer them. granted, you don't always answer directly, you don't always answer the question the way the asker intended, or even answer honestly, but you're acutely aware that you're not just answering one person, you're also answering the entire audience. you know nothing about the political process, judging from your comments here, and i think it tells that none of xenurias supporters can continue defending xenurias rejection that any question can have relevancy.what he does here is akin to being asked a question, by a journalist or a voter, in full public, on record, and his answer is either \"i didn't hear that\", \"stop pestering me\" or simply silence, (almost) to each and every question. no candidate i know of has ever succeeded in an election this way. i should point out that this is entertainment, and that doesn't stop being funny because voting is over. you also keep assuming that this is important, when we've already told you in various ways that no, it's not really necessary for it to be.i'm entertained. for as long as this keeps being funny, i'll keep participating.how's that for an evaluation of a candidate? we did, it was worthless.so, non-loaded questions, that you'll still fail to answer:how and why could you see anyone committing any of the above acts? how would you see yourself doing it, practically, and purely hypothetical? what practical gain can you see by removing them?what source do you have that ~90% of your voters are female?have the cfc (or any null-sec bloc) ever placed you on their endorsed ballot? please do show it.how does stv function in broad strokes?can it ever hurt your chances to be placed on an endorsed ballot, even if lowest, compared to not being on it?see, these questions are questions (and questions into claims you've made) that you have yet failed to answer, even after repeated questions, and if you can, notice how none of them even are relevant to a sane persons decision to vote in the csm, because nothing of this touches on the csm, but alone on your qualifications (or lack thereof) as a candidate. why?because your candidacy has no substance.this candidacy can only solve one persons problem, namely your problem with your own ego that you're not on the csm.you're a joke candidate, biting even at the hands trying to help you (like nariya, not me)."
"but see, those are obviously loaded questions and your just trying to make xenuria say something wrong to look badedit* /sarcasm"
"this is what's called showing your hand. you as a troll have \"shown your hand\" by admitting that you are in collusion with others to troll (badly) this thread. asking questions already answered.asking loaded questions.asking questions detailed in the op.seriously, let it go."
"so by stating he read your op and that his evaluation of its value was that it had none - somehow that's trolling.all you are really doing here is admitting that you are labelling any challenge as \"trolling\" to avoid dealing with it. i've given you some frank and harsh criticism here, and i would be gratified to see you act on it next year to try to run a real campaign, but i suspect that the rewl value here will be in showing others what not to do - or if you do win, that player disillusionment with the csm is so great that they will elect a candidate with no real ideas just to troll ccp."
"stop being a bad xenuria people might not troll you. maybe."
"im trusting that i will win and i have allready bought proper clothes for my planetary representative."
"why are we typing? the votes are in. it probably doesn't matter if tora won or not. sov changes coming shows that ccp probably won't listen to him or the player base. actually, it would be hilarious if tora goes in talking about all this woes and ccp are like, \"erm ... those are easily solved. hang on, station games ... ganking all of this is really broken. oh well, we don't have a solution, guess we just make all 0.8 to 1.0 areas where you can't take any hostile action against another player.\""
"again i'm not reading everything said, just nit pick tid bits i see, just because somebody kills 51.6 bill does not mean they got 51.6 bill. i can kill a 2.5 bill vargur. it doesn't mean i get the 2.5 bill shown from the killmail. hull cost is a thing. that plays are large factor.#deletetheweak"
"whats the source of your claim ? i read and listen to almost everything in eve and cant remember seeing it. but maybe there is another good source i didnt know about yet.i agree, having just corp mates agree with this isnt the most reliable feedback, so i do want opinions from others about it. but that's also true for your replies lucas. so far, i havent seen anyone agreeing with you too. maybe less hahaha and more short to the point replies ?@everyone : this isnt a marmites is so terrible or fantastic post. lets keep focus on the war mechanism. i seriously want to know other opinions then the people who always reply. any industrial alliances with an opinion here ? how do you handle wars ?"
"i'm not with marmite. most of the group i roam are rather gr marmite. but i still voted for tora. #deletetheweak"
"honestly, i don't remember where ccp put it, but it prompted several bloggers to post about it, not least of which sugar writing 3 blog posts on wardecs. above and beyond that though, just look at how wardecs work, and what they cause. they make it impossible to run a decently sized non-pvp corp in highsec, and they are a bigger barrier to corporation membership than awoxing was. do you honestly believe they are going to keep the ability to farm war target corps in the hundreds once time comes to look at the wardec system?unfortunately i think that most people with opinions about subjects that are as polarising as this will keep them to themselves, since when you voice an opinion about subjects like this, it's minutes before you've got the usual trolls attacking you and shiptoasting.to be clear though, my problems with wardecs boil down to the following core issues.- wars prevent large scale non-pvp corporations from being viable. the moment you grow to a substantial size you become a target for wardeccers. having a force to fight back still doesn't protect your non-pvpers, you pretty much have to switch the whole corp to pvp mode for wardecs, which defeats to object of being a pve corp. this means the most viable option for a pve players is to remain in npc corps or solo corps - this is the biggest issue. npc corps should never be the best choice.- they don't promote fighting with groups capable of fighting back, in fact quite the opposite. you are better off farming a lot of players with no desire and no skill to fight back than taking on a challenging war.- tied in with the above, there's too little to actually fight over. wars are relatively aimless. there's more than enough moons for people to split up and pocos are generally owned buy larger groups who occasionally fight over them. this means the general aim of a ward is to destroy a group, get loot or simply buff killboard stats.- wars are aggressor driven. the defender has the options of fight back or evade. once an aggressor chooses to attack there's no other ways to attempt to deal with it without it being the aggressors decision. any attempts to negotiate a surrender have to be agreed by the aggressor, so effectively this means that the aggressor is paying to opt you in for content you don't want to play at all. allies were put in to try to affect this, but for the most part mercs for hire there are either outright scams run by the aggressor or far more expensive than simply disbanding your corp and playing in npc land."
"true, but then on average ships will drop more than 16% of their value, especially when your primary targets are industrial corps and haulers. like i said then, it's a quick and dirty calculation rather than actual statistics. i truly don't believe that between loot and client fees that marmite operate at a loss. i don't think i've met a half-decent merc group that operates at a loss."
"1- 100% false premise. no facts presented. discarded.2- 100% false premise. no facts presented. discarded.3- agreed. wars need more meaning.4-agreed. don't know if that's an issue but the premise holds water. 4b- 100% false premise. no facts presented. discarded.d."
"ok, so to address the ones you disagree one:1. prove that large scale non-pvp corps are viable then. explain why groups like red-frog and pro synergy are forced to operate with npc alts to do everything besides accepting the contracts.2. explain what benefits a group has for fighting competent pvpers over easily farmed industrials and haulers. explain why marmite decs countless industrial corps and even pays a high price to dec null groups - who primarily only run haulers in high sec - and why they don't permadec the likes of poh, deaf, etc to benefit from fighting other pvpers.4b. for the part about scamming, this is done a fair bit. i've even done this myself. for the part about them being priced too high, with the alternative of dropping into an npc corp being quite cheap (just tax and reduction in ease of tranferring between characters), it's obviously true that paying a merc corp will be more. out of curiosity, if a group got wardecced by a group like poh, how much would mamite charge to join as an ally and see them off?"
"false.ships, like pods and pocos drop 0% of their value.chance based loot drop is a lottery on itself and that's excluding people stealing or shooting your loot.added to that their is a thing like loosing ships which is 100% a cost.a large percentage of the wars yield no 'result'. only cost much isk.as a merc corp in eve, you have to be very attentive and shrewd to be able to break even.d."
"on average. do you know what that means?"
"you can't just refer to people's blogs who agree with you and tell us its ccp's direction. that's just as bad as me claiming i am right, as marmite members tell me so.no worries about trolls here, this isnt c&p and the isd's kill first and then ask questions later in the csm section. or use alts. and if thats still not acceptable, mail me. i cant know how people think about eve issues if they don't tell me first.\"wars prevent large scale non-pvp corporations from being viable\" if this is possible in any other part of eve, why cant you do so in an even more safer part of eve like high-sec ? so, i don't agree with you here. during a war, only a small part of high-sec can shoot you. in any other space, they can all shoot you. what is more dangerous to be in ? i think the biggest problem is, that high-sec has more newbies in it, that do not know yet how to counter it. when we are at war with non high-sec industrials, for example mining in high-sec, they are very hard to kill. they watch local, are often aligned, use the watch lists, run locater's from time to time and more. smart playing keeps you alive, not nerfing the game.i don't agree with you that wars are aimless. like i told you before, wars are also being used to kill the (industrial) competition, deny wh alliances to move through space during wh evictions, deny trade hub use, prevent (ice) miners to clear out entire belts alone and i can give you many more examples. and of course there are also wars for no reasons at all. we sometimes war dec people for flying a drake. do you think people in any other part of eve, kill people because they've good reasons ? or is eve always about power, isks, i want yours, i dont like you, die mofo!, etc....\"wars are aggressor driven\". yes, just as in any part of eve. so ? haven't wars always been that way for centuries ?"
"i won't make your argument for you. that's not how it works. but i can say the following:1- red-frog et all aren't forced to anything. they have options and choose the path of least resistance. increasing npc corp penalties will solve this.- i don't feel there should be 100% pve groups, certainly no big ones. they don't enrich the game at all, in fact they kill it.2-we like fighting.- nullsec power blocs hire us to fight their competition. also gevlon goblin... darn, i said it.- we are hired by industrial/pve centric groups to kill of their competition.- deccing other mercs is counter productive and makes no sense. - being hired against other mercs is in fact a thing, some groups specialise in that. (it has in fact the largest chance of nice loot drops but the highest risk with it)4b- scams are a part of eve, your annecdotal 'evidence' isn't evidence. it's annecdotes.- if not otherwise occupied we sometimes do it for free.- when potential costs are high, naturally clients need to pay to cover those risks. that's commen bussines sense.- paying a merc can be more expensive short term but it helps you establish a name for yourself and built out your empire allowing for more safety at later stages equalling more profit, members and fun in the long run.you know; content.d."
"lol for quoting myself maybe this is something we can add to the npe ? missions where an evil villain appears in their local window and they have to warp off in time. teach them to counter in stead of nerfing the game."
"i believe you mean it's pulling a number out of your behind. it isn't.ships drop 0% of their value. <- this isn't average. this is fact.now, do your math or don't bleat about numbers you don't understand nor have experience with.d."
"i actually feel dreads in highsec is creating more barriers for new players and forming corps then it would remove due to how easy it would be to wipe out the med and small towers. i honestly believe limiting tower sizes to med and small would make high sec post's more competitive without placing every indy pos in high sec at the mercy of those of us who would take advantage of them. i gotta tell ya i'd be the first guy to start ransoming all the indy post's in the hek and rens region ;-) ."
"what makes it so you don't do that now, noragen?do you realise how much at risk you'll be in your lonely dread shooting pos?how funny the lossmail will be if some venture or skiff gets you.... eventually d."
"i only wanted dreads to be able to shoot large posses. no other structures. dreads on small, medium posses, poco's would be way to easy. but right now large posses have it to easy. i don't like nerfes, so i want buffs or new mechanics.maybe just ignore the entire dreads thing and give battleships in high-sec +x extra dps if they are hitting a large pos. or a module, only to be used on battleships in high-sec, which gives you that extra dps when shooting a large pos."
"the problem is that highsec has a much higher population and thus far more chance of being attacked by one of the war groups. in other areas of space you can use intel channels quite reliably and know that for the most part if someone is on their way you'll see them 10 jumps out because there's no other players around. they also stand very little chance of being able to camp you out because logistically holding a camp in enemy territory is near impossible. in highsec there isn;t this problem. an aggressor can dock in every station you can and can run logistics just as easily with alts. ask yourself why corps like red-frog operate from npc corps, yet null rents out space to hundreds of corps who do nothing but industry. the problem is you are saying \"highsec has more mechanical safety, thus it's more safe\". that's not true at all. some are, but the majority are for getting easy loot and buffing killboards with easy kills. you can't actually stop players running a given activity with a war, you can only force them to do it from an npc corp, which is why npc corps are so full of players.lol? eve is a sandbox, people wshould be able to play however the **** they want. if a group of players wants to play pve they should be able to and the gameplay should be balanced. as it currently stands it's not. pve players do not kill the game. lack of social interaction kills the game, and wars destroy that far more than pve does. and yes, red frog are forced to operate from npc corps because to choose otherwise would be suicide.ship hulls drop 0% of their value, but if you take the total value of every kill on the killboard and what percentage of that value dropped as loot, then average that out, kills drop more than 16% of their total kill value as loot on average. it's some pretty simple stuff.you can't buff a mechanic for one group without nerfing another, so the only way to have no nerfs is to also have no buffs. what you really mean to say is you don't want nerfs to your playstyle and you couldn't care less whether other people get nerfs.adding dreads would buff your group but nerf owners of large poses. why should a large pos be even easier to take down? they've paid more up front and they pay twice as much as a medium pos in fuel specifically so their pos can be more defensible. why should that be taken away because you want an easier time wrecking though industrial players?"
"those are synonyms."
"eh sometimes needs are needed ;-). especially anti safety nerfs. and danalee who said i wasn't running various safety rackets ;-) . besides i rarely field expensive stuff without proper support"
"i have removed a rule breaking post and those quoting it.also, i do believe the op of this thread asked for specific and constructive feedback. please do try to comply to his wishes in this regard and try to not derail the thread.the rules:4. personal attacks are prohibited. commonly known as flaming, personal attacks are posts that are designed to personally berate or insult another forum user. posts of this nature are not beneficial to the community spirit that ccp promote and as such they will not be tolerated.isd ezwal"
"thank you for all the support!"
"ccp should try selling something other than clothing and ship skins for aurum. like some sort of flair item for capsuleers cq.like some sort of hologram projector that sits on the table and can display some sort of commemorative image. like carolines star. or a titan wreck.i can't help but think they are wasting an opportunity to bring more money in."
"i would cheerfully kick in <U+FFFD>15 to a kickstarter for an avatar based wis game, since that's the only way we're ever going to see it."
"mining not so much, but industry in general is inherently pvp. you are selling your goods in competition with other players.missioning is the closest to pure pve in this game, although it still has hooks to market pvp, just less than industry."
"i'd like to see the statistics before i believe that wholesale.i know of several that aren't on inactive accounts.possibly. without the data it's merely speculation. certainly the changes to industry over the past few years have made t2 invention a lot more competitive than in the past.ccp are not likely to release the data about the effect t2 bpos have. however it would be interesting to see from players an analysis of margins in markets where no t2 bpo exists vs ones where one does.--fang"
"peeveepeetoday, i was the slippery little tomato that escaped the sandwich."
"i read your op, it addressed nothing i asked hence the questions. i won't bother you anymore with legitimate questions on how you intend to be as a politician if you by some chance get elected because you seem to have a disdain for the eve community."
"your platform is one of reform. reform of the csm which otherwise there is no point in voting for, in your view: a view that is 'not uncommon' in your experience. i have listened to your interview on cap-stable. you are articulate and probably intelligent however your manner is sadly supercilious. i found it more helpful than this phlegmatic thread, particularly the discussion of the bullying in game - which you admit has been handled carefully by ccp. i can't say that you've supported your case very well otherwise, i think that is a shame. if behind every question you anticipate attack it can make even the most casual inquiry problematic."
"reading comprehension i would enable you to see that this isn't where i show my hand.if anything, i show my hand much earlier, where i continue to call this entertainment.but \"we\" in this sense isn't even what you think. i'm not in collusion with anyone, it's just painfully obvious that both the cfc and i have been through your op better than you have yourself. in very short, no, there's no need to troll you, or work together on it, and there exists (to my knowledge) no \"agency for keeping xenuria out of politics\", because frankly, you do a much better job of that than we could ever hope to do.\"hate/smear\" campaigns only work as long as there is some resemblance of truth, something to smear with. and you've provided so much of that, just bringing up your earlier actions, statements or history will derail you. personally, the rest is just pure entertainment for me.and i would guess that a number of the cfc posters, as well as nariya, have only seen you run for csm this time, because had they seen your earlier attempts, they'd have given up on any real attempt to help and/or improve your campaign. but just to see how much you're actually able to read, let's see which question- was already answered? (and please provide a link/quote to the answer)- was loaded? (of those i asked in the post you quoted)- was already detailed in the op?because i seriously doubt you're even able to classify even one of the questions in those categories, unless you're going to include earlier times where you rejected the question.@ resi durant, take every claim xenuria makes with a grain of salt. earlier in this thread, he claimed that some low percent of eve players are female (which is both fairly ordinary and without consequence), and that 90% of his voters are female (which would be fairly extraordinary and with a number of implications), and then when pressed on it, tried to write off the extraordinary claim under the guise of the ordinary. he never supplied any evidence for the 90% claim, but maybe he waited until it couldn't influence the voting to reveal that he actually does have those numbers?\"not uncommon\" in xenurias experience also has to take into account his acknowledgement that he only talks with people who already largely share his sentiments. when you're in a secluded group and writes everyone outside off as part of a large conspiracy against you, 100% of people you know of will share your experiences. combined with an acceptance of anecdotal evidence, this leaves xenuria fairly out of touch with eve and the eve community.oh, and if anyone cares to spend the time, try going through the thread with this list and see how many fallacies xenuria makes, compared to me. for extra credit, mark off when one of my ad hominems is actually just changing subject to xenurias qualifications as a candidate in general, instead of this particular run.oh, and xenuria, let's see who gets more votes: you in this space-election, or me in the election for my countrys national parliament later this year. it'll be a fun competition."
"ccp plan to implement \"social corporations\" that you can not declare war on."
"good. this is also part of my own campaign (see op). gives small corps the option to grow first."
"even an analysis of the margins wouldnt tell you about the effect of bpos versus invention, it has to do with what the demand for that item is, if there is a huge demand/movement of product, or a hell of a lot of people participating in that market through production, thats going to weigh in more heavily than whether or not that item has a bpo"
"i remember there was a presentation during fanfest 2013 that touched on t2 bpos (with dr. egyoaksmkasncai;jdfh;rkndcsomethingsomething).if i recall correctly... t2 bpos accounted for less than ~10% of the total production for the most popular items that players use.for items that saw little to no market movement, t2 bpos accounted for almost 66%+.also... excluding invention costs, t2 bpos only have nominally higher margins than t2 bpcs. and if you do factor in invention costs, you need only produce the bpc/product in bulk quantities to lower the impact of that cost... making the advantage of a t2 bpo come down only to the number of steps and click you have to perform in order to produce.make what you will of that info."
"votes are over, but results are not known yet, until thursday.if you have voted for me, post on this thread (even with a simple +1) between now and end of day wednesday.only characters that will have bumped this thread between now and wednesday march 18th. will be invited to each of my csmx core panels during my tenure if i am elected at csm x. once the results known, it will be too late to be on this group.i will also do wider panels of course, but i will listen to my most dedicated voters with a special focus.thanks for reading this now...les votes sont faits, mais les r<U+FFFD>sultats ne seront pas connus avant jeudi.si vous avez vot<U+FFFD> pour moi, postez sur ce sujet avant jeudi prochain (m<U+FFFD>me si c'est avec un simple +1).seuls les personnages qui auront post<U+FFFD>s sur ce sujet entre aujourd'hui et mercredi 18 mars seront invit<U+FFFD>s <U+FFFD> chacunes de mes tables rondes csmx r<U+FFFD>serv<U+FFFD>es <U+FFFD> mes <U+FFFD>lecteurs les plus fid<U+FFFD>les si je suis <U+FFFD>lu au csm x. une fois les r<U+FFFD>sultats connus, il sera trop tard pour faire partie de ce groupe.je ferais aussi des r<U+FFFD>unions plus larges, bien s<U+FFFD>r, mais j'<U+FFFD>couterais mes <U+FFFD>lecteurs les plus fid<U+FFFD>les avec une attention sp<U+FFFD>ciale.merci <U+FFFD> vous, qui lisez cela maintenant...."
"last time i checked cloaked ships can't shoot."
"thanks so much for running mike, regardless of what people say you have done good for this game and i really hope that you've been elected again! if not, enjoy the ability to do just that, sit back and laugh hysterically."
"what country i'll write your eve name on the ballot. :)"
"does not take a genius to see who has been busy trolling this thread. i suppose it's to be expected being weird or different on the internet.that said, it seems clear that even with an appointment to csm, xenuria i think you may very quickly alienate your peers and ccp staff and find yourself shut out of any key discussions and decision making. i think the way in which you are approaching the so-called problem statement is adversarial and negative. i think there are more constructive ways of driving the kind of changes you'd like to but in this particular campaign you've chosen not to take that approach. i say this as someone who is sympathetic to an outsider's point of view, which you have made every attempt to engender."
"from those stats, it's obviously xenuria. thanks for the confidence, but denmark doesn't allow write-in candidates.would be hella-sweet if alphea got elected though, i'm sure she'd raise all kinds of hell in parliament."
"sword of damocles ... and what does code know?"
"undock and counter drop. lay a trap, go somewhere else, htfu."
"ta mani<U+FFFD>re de faire et d'appr<U+FFFD>hender ton hypoth<U+FFFD>tique r<U+FFFD>le au sein du csm me conforte dans ma d<U+FFFD>cision de ne pas avoir vot<U+FFFD> pour toi. c'est ridicule, pitoyable et navrant et <U+FFFD>a prouve avant toute chose que tu n'as rien compris au r<U+FFFD>le des membres du csm. a force de te lire, je commence moi aussi <U+FFFD> penser qu'en fait, tu n'es qu'un troll.editj'aurais peut-<U+FFFD>tre du me taire et me contenter d'un \"+1\" en fait, non?j'aurais eu beaucoup plus de poids du coup, comme j'aurais eu droit <U+FFFD> une \"attention toute sp<U+FFFD>ciale\"...no comment..."
"well said, i fully agree with your points."
"is the social corp a social corp indefinitely, however?"
"lol, what?!?!?"
"if 10 is the correct number.... needs further study."
"mjds"
"i love mjd's but what relevance do they have here? unless you're saying ratting battleships should gave one."
"+1 for nsa bivas, because like life, eve is very confusing and scary !!"
"limiting the number of titans and supers rather than nerfing them."
"oh well.thanks for voting guys.at least we kept the good ones from csm 9."
"closing statement:it has been quite an experience.quite some day ago, i said that win or lose, i won't be running again next year.the whole process reinforced my belief that csm is a farce where mostly only a few people from large alliance win seats. (few token ones from other parts of eve). notice how much of goons slate won seats, for example.the way ccp fozzie logic is going ahead with low sec 2.0 and ignoring player and csm feedback further fortifies my beliefs that csm is a pr puppet that looks good when they dance to the right tune. i am glad that i will not share in the blame for such bone-headed design changes.to future candidates, remember that marlona sky biomassed over the process of running for csm.fortunately, good ones from csm 9 were re-elected.if people voted for me over some others, who i am glad lost the election, then i have done my part for eve."
"not that i disagree, but posting this just hours after you lost just makes you look like a butthurt whiner. intended or not, it's distinctly lacking in class.don't turn into a xenuria just when you have the chance to show you can handle a loss with grace. act like an adult today and go back on the attack tomorrow.mr epeen"
"wheee!\o/thanks to everyone who voted for me."
"i'm very happy with this slate. do us proud, steve! and update your sig."
"two thumbs up!mr epeen"
"keep up the good work."
"which are mostly him trolling replies and saying why he won't answer a question, heh. so that would be accurate."
"so congratulations to all who got in! i am looking forward to seeing a more detailed breakdown of voting!and a big thank you goes out to all those who supported me.and, of course, i shall be back in the running next year!"
"congrats!wormholes are once again in good hands, and your productivity rampage with sugar can continue!"
"congratulation to all the members of csm x!this wraps up my campaign, of course, and i am glad to have participated to the largest pool of csm candidates ever.i want to thank all of those that put me on their ballot, as well as all of those public outlets that spent time and efforts to highlight all the candidates, even those that have been \"less popular\".i also want to thank all the friends i flew with in the past that, despite possibly recognizing my main alts, respected my wish for anonimity. borat is and will remain my main public alt. i have chosen to not reach out to you before and during that campaign as i truly wanted to run on my platform and the communication tools ccp provides.i decided to run on behalf of solo players. after i left the big coalitions after the botl0rds accords, i thought that i could not be the only one to focus my alts to play solo, or as a micro-corp, in dangerous areas of new eden. but without any idea of how many of us solos are really out there, and how interested we may all be in csm politics, this was a gamble that i lost. the votes have been counted, and i am now returning to my regular activities, with the sense that i did everything i could to put out a different voice, as an independent candidate.there are plenty of exciting news for eve online in the future, from fitting structures in spaces, to the entosis based sov, overhauling the role of capitals or finding out more about the drifters... in today's keynote presentation, ccp seagull took great care to mention us, solo players. and this is good. fly safe. o7 congratulations <U+FFFD> tous les membres du csm x!c'est donc la conclusion de ma campagne, bien s<U+FFFD>r, et je suis heureux d'avoir pu participer <U+FFFD> la campagne csm qui a eu le plus grand nombre de candidats.je souhaite remercier tous ceux qui ont vot<U+FFFD> pour moi, ainsi que tous les sites publics qui ont pass<U+FFFD> du temps et des efforts pour relayer la voix de tous les candidats, y compris les \"moins populaires\".je souhaite aussi remercer tous les amis avec qui j'ai pu <U+FFFD>tre en fleet par le pass<U+FFFD> qui auraient pu reconnaitre mes alts principaux et on respect<U+FFFD> mon souhait d'anonymat. borat est et resteras mon alt public principal. j'ai choisi de ne pas vous contacter avant ou pendant ma campagne pour pouvoir me focaliser sur ma plate forme et les outils de communication fournis par ccp.j'ai d<U+FFFD>cid<U+FFFD> de repr<U+FFFD>senter les joueurs solos. apr<U+FFFD>s avoir quitt<U+FFFD> les coalitions null-sec apr<U+FFFD>s les accords botl0rds, j'ai pens<U+FFFD> que je ne pouvais pas <U+FFFD>tre le seul joueur <U+FFFD> utiliser tous mes alts pour jouer solo dans les endroits les plus dangereux de new eden. sans avoir aucune id<U+FFFD>e du nombre r<U+FFFD>el de joueurs solos, et de leur inter<U+FFFD>t pour la politique du csm, ce fut un pari que j'ai perdu. les votes ont <U+FFFD>t<U+FFFD> compt<U+FFFD>s, et je vais maintenant retourner <U+FFFD> mes activit<U+FFFD>s r<U+FFFD>guli<U+FFFD>res, avec le sentiment d'avoir fait tout ce que je pouvais pour apporter une voix diff<U+FFFD>rente, en tant que candidat ind<U+FFFD>pendant. il y a pleins de nouvelles excitantes au sujet de eve online. entre le fitting des structures <U+FFFD> venir, la souverainet<U+FFFD> bas<U+FFFD>e sur les liens entosis, la refonte du r<U+FFFD>le des capital ships ou la d<U+FFFD>couverte du r<U+FFFD>le des drifters... dans la pr<U+FFFD>sentation principale d'aujourd'hui, ccp seagul a pris soin de mentionner les joueurs solo. et c'est bien...fly safe. o7"
"you have earned it! congratulations, mike! do us proud."
"wow, three in a row.thank you all and i will keep trying to earn the responsibility you have given me.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"gratz! don't ever give up the good fight!mr epeen"
"we have the worst csm to date, and of course one of the people responsible for it, mike, got elected again.when is the next mike-sanctioned hisec nerf? i believe it was april, the time null ores are redone, which will probably devalue hisec ores below the ground... again.anything to say in your defense?"
"despite having 2 gewns and 1 codegewn, the community have managed to protect itself from the truly worst candidates.speaking on behalf of all the people who have read you candidacy nonsense i wish to express the following thought: get rekt, son."
"calm down, miner.sabriz - bad luck. maybe next time?"
"maybe next year. i still have faith."
"well done cagali cagali for being elected for csm x"
"and you and manfred are the permanent attendees. sweet! do us proud, sugar!"
"i would love nothing move then to see lots of small alliances all over the place again especially in the east like it used to be a long time ago. there is planty of room in the east and north east for small alliances to grow given that it is essentially worthless space once renting is part of eve-online history at least in its current form. but the main problem i have with the new sov system is that there are to many penalties for owning space for essentially no reward. regions like scalding pass, wicked creek and insmother will still be worthless due to poor truesec and poor moon density. with no way to ever improve your space to not be **** or be worth figthing for and losing ships for other then a worthless flag on a spaceship game map."
"those are very valid concerns and i really hope ccp is considering them. in some ways i think renting space will be easier as the parent alliance can own sov in the system, own the stations, but allow the renters to set up their own infrastructure hubs. certain areas will probably need to be rebalanced as you said. with endie and the others who made the csm i'm sure these concerns will be addressed, and lately ccp has be handling feedback really well imo."
"thank you for your support!here's to a successful year on csmx~"
"grats manny!"
"ty everyone for believing! humbled beyond words  manny"
"well now that ccp has said pos can be placed anywhere; just not next to each other. these ships would get more use. i agree the small should be immune to warp disruption bubbles like interceptors. let the small one specialize in mobility deployables and siphon units. the large ship would be for pos... but what would make it better then a covop transport? anchoring/unanchoring bonuses and/or onlining bonus?"
"hi there and congrats to all elected members of csm 2015,this topic is a request to put hi csm 2015 agenda the translation of eve online client to spanish, this is a well talked about subject that has a lot of potential for new players in the eve universe and a topic that needs to be advanced.thank you in advance,hola y felicidades a todos los miembros electos de csm 2015,la presente es una solicitud de incluir en sus agendas el tema del cliente en espa<U+FFFD>ol, esto es un tema que ha sido debatido mucho, lo penoso es que el potencial del crecimiento del juego de nuevos jugadores de habla hispana es inmenso y cada dia se esta perdiendo valioso tiempo.thank you in advance,reference:"
"it's a slightly larger issue than just the translation of the client (though that's far from inconsequential)it also requires support staff, which is probably the bigger cost.i'll bring it up with them, but i wouldn't expect fast motion on it. (just trying to manage expectations, rather than quash them)"
"i like the new eagle. please explain why your opinion is more valid than mine."
"all i want is just to add another eagle's model into aurum-shop."
"o/ csm x members,congratulations on those that made it into csm x, a new frontier for 7 new members (sort dragon was csm 8)it's nice to see so many incumbents return, including some very hard workers e.g. sugar kyle, steve ronuken we recently saw a graph from fanfest that showed the use of the nestor battleship in pvp damage.sure you can get 1.4k dps out of it with a 110k ehp tank, but at a price of about 6,3 billion isk.source:"
"i am new and did not find the game too hard, because i asked 200 million questions in the help channel and grouped with some good people. i think the learning curve is okay just from the tutorial and in game help is very effective. the player base is both the best and worst i have ever seen in humanity in a game. some things i don't like, but newbie help is not one of them. the players have been so generous to me without me even asking. i am really in love with the play base in general. there are some things i specifically do and do not like.i like:1. pvpers with a sense of fair play and who test my limits. without a fleet, all i can do is run right now but it is alot of fun evading these guys. skirmishes in my empire space is fun too.2. the help channels, nothing like this exists in either wow or ffxiv the two mmos i play off and on. i have asked a billion questions in rookie help and help and about 90% of the time i am assisted quickly and accurately. amazing. this made me subscribe.3. the roleplaying community. it's just plain fun. everyone has such a great character and i can't believe how on point everyone is in intergalactic summit. characters are deep, funny and entertaining, and best of all, lots of diversity!4. faction warfare vets - they are clearly very invested in the game but ive been invited into a few fleets even though i am complete newbie and not in their corp. you can tell it is a whole game unto itself that you can get lost in.5. mini games. pi, mining, rp, exploration - there's so much to do! if i am writing my book i can just mine on the side or do pi, or if i need an adrenaline rush i can quickly find pvp a few jumps away with factional warfare.6. missions. they are fun and entertaining, and i've found way more exciting if you do them in null sec. i am now officially addicted to serpentis and militia missions into enemy territory.7. the spaceships galore! i drool over them! even the rookie ships are gorgeous!i do not like:1. the attitude of some players, who just want to ruin the fun of others. ie, people who hate miners for no in character reason, people who are just plain racist or hateful bags of cat poop. people in the game and on the forums especially like to make fun of people with aspergers, jews, suicidal people, **** victims people who have any kind of emotion at all, and let's not forget, the ever present homophobia sponsored by repressed homosexuals in denial. posts sit up for 3-5 years with complete garbage like this in them. i have never seen this level of teenage angst in one game forum. 2. bad weird suspicious nepotism. stuff in eve should stay in eve. the whole idea of ccp being in bed with a player corp is a little too creepy for me. it reminds me of, oh two games i used to play that were totally ruined by coke snorting gm's getting cozy with players who were promoted for no reason other than sleeping with the people in control. you should never make decisions which affect both an entire game world which is also your job based on your genitals or access to coca. to be fair, i see that a major restructuring went down recently and even though their is an atrocious past record, seems like ccp knows this is a bad thing for business. but then again i wouldn't be surprised tomorrow to learn that isis is secretly using eve to plan attacks, thats how bad this whole thing looks to a totally newbie like me. im not saying thats how it is, its just how it looks in the news and player opinions - ive been through hundreds of posts outlining legitimate concerns that are poopoo'd in the typical kneejerk seasoned troll player pattern. it looks desperate and it looks like nepotism to me. i did come across this:\"if you suspect any ccp employees of favoritism you should report the incident to ccp's internal affairs team via internalaffairs@ccpgames.com.as a result of last year's company reorganization internal affairs is part of the security team lead by darius johnson (aka ccp sreegs) which will ensure that your complaints are investigated in a most neutral & objective manner.\"now i am not saying i feel targeted by it or that it will ever be a concern for me. but it does stink like fish."
"welcome to eve, with the attitude you're displaying, you'll probably be here a long time. about the two things you mentioned you didn't like.1. in a sandbox game such as eve online, there will inevitably be instances of when my idea of fun is viewed by someone as ruining their idea of fun. the opposite is also true. this is the nature of a game where you can do pretty much anything you want.2. any time you get a group of humans together, there will always be hatred and bigotry. this is human nature, no matter how badly the feel good pc crowd wants you to believe. ccp has determined that such behavior is not allowed in public channels, so take a screenshot of it when it happens and report it.3. look up the history of an alliance called band of brothers, aka bob, and you'll understand why we have that paranoia about devs getting involved with player groups."
"i too find the economy pretty stagnant. i posted an idea on these forums a little while ago."
"i am pleased. please note the following from the first page:... and it is said in the post above your one.note the time stamps of this post that are before the election results:i was leaving a message for next year's hopeful candidates. that message is, in my experience, \"do not bother.\""
"you're surprised that groups vote for their own members, that large numbers help those people win - and you think this represents a problem?"
"no. i said they would from the outset. tribilism behaviour.zuma was up on violent sexual assault charges, arms dealing and collaboration before he was elected. he simply became president due to being a zulu, they are 60% of the population and their closely related tribe the xhosa vote for the zulu representative if they do not have one themselves.i still advocate that ccp inform their player base better of what csm is. there was a brief thing on the launcher with the shuttles and then it was gone. the average players used up much of my time explaining that there is a csm and what it is.once again, most of the csm represent a minority. good going ccp. link back to closing statement."
"good luck. try get a large alliance behind you. it is the short cut to a seat."
"better luck next year tora. i'll be having words with my alts if they didn't vote for you"
"i have removed a rule breaking post."
"be interesting to see how many of the people posting earlier in the thread and elsewhere, praising corbexx for his csm9 service, his experience, his work ethic, and his game knowledge, will now shriek in outrage because he wears the wrong alliance tag."
"did you vote? i am in waaaay too good a mood to take offence at your tone, your entitlement, your errors so tightly pakced in such a small package.they could make minerals twice as common and easy to get in null. unless they have folks there willing to mine them, it will make no difference. but don't let my opinion sway you. tell me more about how i manage to be the one driving the bus taking hisec down the ever so well paved road to hell.mdid i mention i was in a good mood?mike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"congratulations on winning a third year of unpaid work trying to make a video game better for whiny ungrateful man-children!"
"oh? i thought we were meant to be hating on mike for being too carebear-yam i behind the timesnow that you've been caught nerfing highsec you're supposed to give an extended evil monologue and proclaim that nothing can stop you now"
"the law organization agents made the best so you could be elected again.may you bring the light again in your chair of csm diplomat.claritatem et ferociam."
"velma grabs my neck and peels back the mask \"it was old man mittens all along\"mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"i can only visualise him as a kid."
"there was a mining report in dev blogs recently, which drew a clear picture. some null regions scored a lot more than certain not depopulated hisec ones. i still remembered how odyssey plummeted mining into the ground, and it doesn't take a genius to tell what any ore rebalance favoring null will do to hisec, which has already lost any industrial competition with null and is nothing more than a raw resource provider for it at the moment.you were in the csm then, you are in the csm now, you ok'd it, you devalued it, and now, 5 buffs later, when 80% of resource providing capacity has been recovered, time to kick the dying dog. thanks, mike."
"i didn't expect to be elected but was always serious about the campaign. this was the result i expected from day 1, if not the result i hoped for.if time permits i will recontest next year, and hopefully i will be under less rl stress than i have been the past eight months. if i don't contest, i will definitely have - and share - opinions on where eve should go and opinions on who should make csm.two final things that i hope the elected reps take on. 1) in a competitive game environment with the degree of market pvp of eve, creating wealth for one subset of players reduces the competitiveness of everyone else.this applies both to blatant cheating (e.g. t20 at the extreme, bot mining or bot ratting at a less extreme example) but also to game balance changes. to take a hypothetical extreme case, if c3 wormhole sites were buffed to the point that they made you 800 million isk per pilot per hour, this would have a devastating impact on the rest of the game.highsec incursions aren't at that extreme, but they need correction. null ratting and highsec l4s need looking at too.2) be aware that anything posed as a quality of life change always hides a balance change behind it. the changes in phoebe that allowed invention jobs to be multi-queued were pitched as a quality of life change, yet i would argue they were the biggest balance change in tech 2 production all year.assess every proposed change - even the most mundane - for its impact on game balance. be honest as to what you think that impact will be - then make an informed decision. sometimes that will be \"yes, this is good for both qol and game balance\".sometimes, \"this is good for qol but so bad for game balance that it should be stopped\"sometimes \"this is good for qol, bad for game balance, but the good outweighs the bad.\"seldom will it be \"this is good for qol but has no game balance impacts that i can forsee\". if you think it is the latter, double and triple check, and ask \"does this affect game balance, but in a way that improves my position in game so i am ignoring it?\"."
"code has forgotten about us miners to be a goon pet for like half a year now. 1) bawwwww my easymode pvf (player vs freighter) gameplay generates no isk, please nerf isk generation so all the free stuff we get with my easymode pvf (player vs freighter) gameplay is worth more.2) if the main barrier in said activity was based on amount of clicks you have to make and alarm clocks you have to set, when it gets fixed with a qol change and it revolutionizes it, then either the change is a great boon, or the design was bad in the first place. i wonder if people like you would've argued against 24 hours skill queue thingy back when it was introduced, because it \"makes being online less rewarding and thus bad for balance\". screw balance. your so-called stance was for conflict, and balance is the opposite of that, so why so much bother about balance? you are a hypocrite in everything except being almost open-stanced \"nerf everyone but me candidate\" among your gewn masters. you put out the word \"conflict\" and your final word is crying for balance. you put out the word \"role-play\" and the only role-play you do is master-slave relationship with gewns. i am not satisfied with csm election results, but at the same time, extremely proud to be a part of the community which culls candidates like you and tora."
"no point responding to a troll. but hey, i'll be indulgent.i actually thought you were a mike azariah supporter (without his skills in smooth talking and diplomacy) until i saw you posted largely the opposite viewpoint in his thread but with the same degree of hostility.balance is the opposite of conflict? i've heard it all now. and you should ask people that actually build things what they think of the phoebe changes. steve ronuken believes there's issues with them in hindsight, it's not just me."
"would everyone now please rise for the national anthem of neckbeardia.o7"
"that didn't make sense tipsy and i know it won't make sense sober. not intending to get drunk tonight, so a reply might be a while off.i am not a goon and i make no secret that i often build things to sell to their rivals in wars. i'm neutral with respect to sov null conflicts. however, even i think that goonswarm federation deserves an apology for the accusation of being affiliated with mike azariah."
"it is no secret that the code of code openly states being the pets of gewns.you are in the code, you have the link to the code of code in your sig. what else?being a gewn hisec pet is not about null sov, of course, it's doing what master orders. code is trying hard at that, and that includes you.mike is not in \"affiliation\", he just has been considered harmless and allowed to not be culled for being spineless teethless nobody of a csm."
"i have removed a trollish/disrespectful post and those quoting it. please be respectful if you want to participate on the forums."
"the law organization agents made the best so you could be elected again.may you bring the light in your chair of csm diplomat.claritatem et ferociam."
"congratulations core!"
"the law organization agents made the best so you could be elected again.may you bring the light in your chair of csm diplomat.claritatem et ferociam."
"i just wanted to thank everyone who voted for me. thank you so much. we'll have a powerful year."
"i'm surprised by the result, but pleased. thanks for running again"
"grats mateenjoy your unpaid job!"
"it's strange that ccp maintains support for japanese but not spanish. not only is spanish a far more common language, gaming culture among spanish speaking population is in line with western gaming. while majority of japanese gamers tend to be much less receptive to western genres."
"thx for the quick reply steve ronuken,the potential of new player growth in the spanish speaking countries is big and a much needed fresh air of culture diversity. spanish is the 2nd most spoken native language in the world more so than english and it does not make sense that japanese the 9th gets to have a client, especially at a 4 to 1 population ratio.ref:"
"as a fan of the soe ships, my problem with the nestor is that it simply doesn't feel like it fits into what the astero and stratios are supposed to be. it's loaded with seemingly random bonuses, including ones that just don't make sense on a battleship. i'm sorry but you're not hacking cans in a nestor except as ridiculous bait.i'd like to see the nestor aligned to a specific purpose, still loosely tied to the things the other soe ships lean on: exploration cloaky shenanigans drones and lasers agility and flexibility perhaps if you looked at it this way: the astero is a ship that's made for noncombat exporation.the stratios is a ship that's made for combat and noncombat exploration.the nestor is a ship that's made for _______________ ?"
"support of the other two, in larger fleets?"
"the nestor currently has these bonuses:gallente battleship bonuses (per skill level):10% bonus to drone hitpoints and damageamarr battleship bonuses (per skill level):4% bonus to all armor resistancesrole bonus:50% bonus to large energy turret optimal range50% bonus to core and combat scanner probe strength10+ bonus to relic and data analyzer virus strength50% bonus to remote armor repairer amount200% bonus to remote armor repairer rangei would love to see soe a little bit more tied into the serpentis because of the lore background.santimona sarpati is the reverend mother[1] and ceo of the [[sisters of eve|sisters of eve]]. santimona is the sibling of salvador sarpati the current leader and ceo of the serpentis corporation. once a close friend and ally of silphy en diabel, santimona has now turned her back on her and mockingly calls her queen silphy of the syndicate.source:"
"in a combat role the astero and stratios are great in fleet or solo; they are very strong ships. the nestor has a unique roles within the battleship class and that makes it a good ship; it does what it does well but it's expensive atm and that makes it a little too risky to fly exclusively as a damage platform. the nestor has other benefits to a fleet which don't involve damage, and for me that's where it excels and fits within the lore of soe perfectly. for me the soe ships are all awesome in their own way, it's just the pirate faction battleships tend to be more focused than their smaller counterparts. for me at least the nestor is more of a logistics ship than anything else."
"when you stand on a platform, you stand.when you change what you stood upon, you should fall.corbexx, you stood as \"independent\" of the blocks/alliances. apparently, you never intended to be independent.i voted for you on this basis and i am sure that many others also did so.bad karma. you begin your term as someone who cannot be held to his word. whatever you do this csm term, your motivations will be questioned. and rightly so.a very bad start to the new csm."
"years ago, before i took a four year hiatus from eve online, all one had to do to activate a kill right was find their target and destroy their ship. just a few days after returning to the game, i was suicide ganked as a came through a gate in high sec, granting me kill rights against the character who killed me. unaware of the new kill right mechanics, i proceeded to fit up a t1 frigate, knowing that my target was long range fitted, and get some sweet revenge. i did not get said revenge, i was destroyed by concord, because i was unfamiliar with the present day game mechanic. i am suggesting a tutorial for activating kill rights be added to the game, as to prevent other new or returning players from falling victim to the same confusion that befell myself."
"regarding politeness & manners i think the rule of thumb is that if you arrive in-belt and a miner/s is already there you move to the next or another belt in-system and not the incumbent. not doing so tends to rub miners up the wrong way and results in conflict. i think the changes to isboxer type software have resulted in some multi-miner players either leaving the game, downsizing, or choosing another career option within new eden. nevertheless the use of ten+ mining vessels to clear belts in very short timespans in high sec is not a myth and can be very annoying for other miners. i agree that miners are not afk continually as this isn't possible due to game mechanics but it is possible to be afk for periods of time. \" they're gonna feel pretty stupid when they find out. \" rick. \" find out what ? \" abraham. \" they're screwing with the wrong people. \" rick. season four. ' the walking dead. ' ."
"i will have to read your mining changes concept again. i thought you suggested keeping the current basic target lock and fire laser mechanic but ditch the asteroid belts in favour of new 'mining missions' from agents at npc stations i'm jumping the gun here as the main structures talk at fanfest isn't on until 1pm. but the keynote teasers suggested structures that would be able to mine asteroid belts. if this happens then your concept wouldn't be able to be implemented which is unfortunate. \" they're gonna feel pretty stupid when they find out. \" rick. \" find out what ? \" abraham. \" they're screwing with the wrong people. \" rick. season four. ' the walking dead. ' ."
"the mining missions thing was as an alternate method to find asteroids, not as a 'this is the only way to get them'. convenient for beginners, and people who don't want to get into finding roids of their own. (and people in npc corps, who couldn't stake a claim)the mining platform thing is an interesting one too having some /large/ asteroids, which you can't otherwise mine, but the structure can crack them open, and release a horde of necromorphs to eat everyone. i mean spawn asteroids you can mine."
"my alts voted alright, so no arguments there.better luck next time tora, cya around.o7"
"i have removed a disrespectful post and one quoting it. please stay respectful on our forums, regardless of your in-game affiliations."
"i guess this is the point where i'm supposed to congratulate corbexx on his masterful switching of sides immediately after the csm election. i just hope he stays as a full time wormhole resident for his tenure as csm. if he does not, i think much of the community will feel betrayed.founder of violet squadron, a small gang npsi community! mail me for more information."
"things and stuff.that is my official statement.you can quote me \"on that.\" the terminal end of the digestive system."
"plex for door opening device?"
"lol. how many plex?!?"
"is a good idea and the return of the spanis chat room"
"i actually love the mechanic, although blops does need some lovin' -1"
"as a former provi resident i'm glad i missed this thread. seriously guys, cut the whining, learn from yulai/volt and get your **** together and form home defence groups. the blops nerfs gave you guys some much needed breathing space, and provi has one of the best intel networks in the game. don't tell me you can't adapt. try living without local and random connections in your home and you'll know what a godsend a jump bridge once every hour or so would be.as for blops, i think they're reaosnably balanced now but would be pretty disappointed if they get further nerfed.\"face the enemy as a solid wall for faith is your armor and through it, the enemy will find no breach wrap your arms around the enemy for faith is your fire and with it, burn away his evil\""
"i had interesting discussion at fanfest about eve jukebox. here is short version of it: with simple playlist. it would be fairly easy to make. no mp3 players no fancy pancy features. simple playlist. this would require csm to suggest simple playlist for eve.i think it is horrible waste of good music that there is no interface to control music in eve. now you have chance to make a difference. bring back our ear candy."
"a couple of ideas for alternate bonuses.to better support the others maybe... a direction scanner disabler. works into the new gameplay mechanics for combat bc's and the wip sov structures coming out. maybe an aoe version to shield allies or structures from direction scans. still can be found with probes but you have to be looking for it. possible new probe type that surrounds an area, even gates,pos, and stations. the probes detect warp trajectories but not distance or speed and create 2-3 bookmarks that give you a straight line that can be shared to other ppl. gives you intel so you can scan ppl out who are in areas not seen by direction scanners. really useful if the new game mechanics let you place stuff anywhere. who's gonna think to look 5au out from every orbital body if you don't have intel like this? still can be worked around... warp from station to planet 1, then to pos on moon 6 of said planet, then a few safe-spots, then to hidden pos. change safe spots every so often and your good.your working on a new map. is there a new solar map coming up? could we get real time scanning info on said map with movement? maybe only so many larger fleet ships or structures have said realtime linked sensor webs maybe the nestor is the only subcap to get said ability?lastly i don't think the nestor should have covops cause then it's just a gimped blackops. a pirate faction blop would be too op on the lvl of a tourny prize ship."
"not an issue, but a rant. closed as such."
"so, election is over, it's time for evaluation of what went well and what went badly.will we see any evaluation from xenuria? or will we see another candidacy for csm 11, with the same unappealing (and in many ways, dishonest, fantasy-based and offputting) platform and the same, predictable election result?oh, and if anyone knows where to get the numbers, how many voted for xenuria as their first choice? i need something to set as a personal minimum (since the actual minimum of local votes includes party votes and votes for other candidates). *c'mon xenuria, you have tried to play the strong-man-card here, the all-knowing, superior election-campaign-machine with an infallible platform that doesn't allow for further questions. let's see how you hold up against someone who does this for both study and 'living'.(okay, 'living' needs more quotationmarks, it's pretty hyperbolic since it's only an expenses-paid-for kind of deal.)let's shake hands on this bet. i raise you 1 isk, your space-honour and that you have to answer all questions in your candidacy thread next time you run, and that answer cannot be in the \"check op/platform post\" or \"i refuse to answer because of [reasons]\" - but copy-paste of earlier answers to same types of questions is fine.what will you demand of me? mention in my speeches? naked twitch-streaming? saluting fat bee? (okay, not that last one, i do have standards...)let's do it, politicians' honour.*actual goals will be set on sane conditions, not internet bets."
"this is a trash post trying to be last post.yay another year of bugging the wholly hell out of mike with my useless ideas and random bull"
"i scrached my head trying to figure out this post. then gave up because the poster obiously doesn't know how csm works and is looking for a scapegoat."
"all the plexjust contract them to me and i shall pass them on."
"if you do not want to pvp consider grafting yourself onto the multitude of corps who specialize in protecting pvers, ie aegis protects industrialists for a cost you must give up some autonomy but this is like irl. find a great corp to protect you and offer them your non pvp services it is true it will be indirect pvp but it is a pvp game, and this is not even hardcore pvp, that is found in fps...i never get bothered in 1.0 space you can stay there if you want to or learn to use warp core stabs and cloaking always report offensive behavior that goes outside of the tos.i am new to the game and i keep finding myself wondering at how nice everyone is, even a lot of the people that kill my character. there are some nasty stupid people but i will get my revenge on them eventually."
"ive been playing since 05 and have noticed a massive change in the game when marketing hit the us, as im also a us player.finding ways to make money off of others with as little effort as possible have become massive between numerous scams, and ganking anything you can gank."
"agondray wrote:ive been playing since 05 and have noticed a massive change in the game when marketing hit the us, as im also a us player.finding ways to make money off of others with as little effort as possible have become massive between numerous scams, and ganking anything you can gank.i haven't been here since 2005, but eve is suppose to this way - full of scams and gankers:"
"it was always a pvp game, if you didn't get the memo in 2004, you will not likely get it now. to compete is pvp."
"how about setting drifter's name by the name of capsuleer who killed by drifter npc?i watching new eve trailer \"emergent threats\".in this movie, the drifter had made by death capsuleer.it will be nice experience to user."
"leaving aside the question-begging in that comparison, eve is a sandbox video game where the whole point is to advance yourself and your space tribe and do battle with others in various fashions. tribalism is really not a problem in this context."
"~csm 11 official platform~-api-the api needs work especially in terms of what the player has access too. many of the changes i propose are under the category <U+FFFD>quality of life<U+FFFD>. eve is about the player sculpting their experience and that of others by means of information and stimuli. modern day corporations use massive databanks of common search terms and phrases to gauge the interests and desires of their target markets. eve should be no different. --changes--the api should include (optionally) more information about a player/corp/alliance. information like losses to npcs, kills in a given area over a given time span, how many times a player/corp/alliance has changed a standing given a time period, etc. the more data that ccp can reasonably and fairly provide players through the api without being unbalanced the better. -ui-the current ui is a marvel of innovation due in no small part to the diligence of people like ccp karkur and other members of ccp who are constantly trying to find a <U+FFFD>better way<U+FFFD>. the ui has come a very long way since the early days of eve, let<U+FFFD>s see if it can come farther. --changes--the corp ui needs attention, it<U+FFFD>s a train wreck of dividers and columns that presents in an unintuitive and often confusing way. it needs a full work over the results of which players should be allowed to optionally opt in and out of at will. the people and places window could benefit from more filtration options like <U+FFFD>most conversations with<U+FFFD> or <U+FFFD>most often online<U+FFFD>, little changes like this make the social aspects of eve easier to manage.-vanity & ego-ccp has already expressed an intent to bring ships skins and other vanity items to eve that are representative of different factions and entities. why should a player with 9.0 standing with interbus pay the same amount for an interbus skin or vanity item as a player with -9.0 standing? they shouldn<U+FFFD>t. my changes would rework the way standings affect game-play specific in the context of vanity items and ship variations. --changes--a player with perfect standing with a faction (10.0) should never have to pay for the use of a skin or vanity item of that faction. if a player has terrible standing with a faction and wants to purchase a skin or vanity item for that faction, this low standing should negatively impact the affordability and/or practicality of buying that skin from the vendor. a corp or alliance with a desire to put it<U+FFFD>s logo on a ship should have no cost associated with doing so if the corp/alliance standing with the faction of that ship is high enough. -more tba-"
"reservedsourceshoes and other vanity based art assets should be re-worked to fit inline with the current standards of mainstream art assets."
"easily your least terrible op yet. good to see you're taking feedback on board i guess."
"just quoting for future reference. (specifically to do with already announced changes. i'd expect someone on the csm to keep up with the changes for the game. it's kinda important.)"
"the election is over and more than half of the new csm is cfc. i tried to warn you all, i told you this would happen."
"do you also predict it will be hot in florida in july?"
"so, two things here, both makes you seem ill-informed.first, you're complaining that the representatives are, by and large, representative of the voting population. how can this surprise you? would it surprise you if i told you that barack obama achieved a majority of the popular vote in the last election? no? then why are you complaining, when the reverse would obviously be worse?second, you're wrong. endie, sion and thoric are cfc, and apparently corbexx will go that way as well, giving you at best 4/14 cfc members. not only can't you understand the stv system specifically, or democracy in general, but apparently basic math is too much for you?damn, you're too easy.kiryen o'bannon also has a good point. i had actually expected it to be 4 \"out of the box\", and then perhaps one or two with shifting allegiances, and most of all i had expected one, if not both, of the permanent attendees to be cfc. i'd like to get the numbers to crunch, this result would be consistent with a divided ballot, so it's interesting to see to how large or small a degree the cfc ballot was followed to the letter."
"all of your assumptions are assuming you're dealing with 200 men with carriers, if that is such the case.... i'm in terrible feels for who the hell you pissed off. taking your logic hand in hand, just drop in 200 titians. now what is your issue ? 1 dd is 1 carrier gone no hope or savoir. carriers just look scary, they are but 200 dreads can put a dent against them easily. your sub-caps are just that, sub-par. i don't want a bs killing my carrier, your bs is for supporting your capital fleet getting rid of the things that we don't really care about so we can support our capital fleet against, other capitals. plus if you have a jammer you can jam a carrier, der der der, no more reps from that guy. carriers can also be neuted out, trust me that hurts the cap chain seriously. i honestly hate people who want changes when they're not willing to step away from a problem and look at it and solve it via in game mechanics. troll. now how to really win against logi ? bring in your jams boy. they want jam for their toast. they also like being neuted out, very effective. if you pvp any you're likely carrying a neut, if not, refit it and then go back. or re-plan your fleet so you're covered, or just warp away in general."
"the bhaalgorns are coming, the bhaalgorn are coming!"
"[quote=alien machine] taking your logic hand in hand, just drop in 200 titians. now what is your issue ? 1 dd is 1 carrier gone no hope or savoir. carriers just look scary, they are but 200 dreads can put a dent against them easily./quote]the whole eve is not about \"i need bigger ship to counter your big ships\". btw, dread blob against carrier blob don't work. how many coalitions can deploy 200 titans?carriers remote rep them self, dreads cannot have any remote aid. neuting carrier fleet? so i drop 200 neuting armagedons against 200 carriers : 1 per carrier. my armagedons cannot cap them self , and will run out of cap pretty soon. carriers will be using gardes to kill neuting ships. while those armageddons will not do any real harm to carriers in terms of dps - so i need other dps ships. wait , local is already at 400 and i still not have dps fleet deployed?no this will not work this way either. issue is that even reinforced nodes are unable to compute amount of ships needed to kill slowcat fleet."
"i know a lot of people that are interested in playing eve online, but dont know english, so there is a lot of potencial. is not that hard, isnt it?"
"please don't remove jump fatigue, it will make me regret selling my cap alt."
"i pulled a p sick burnout in some of the new ships, one could say they were almost ill."
"i'm extremely cautious about voting for anyone who appears to have an agenda for the csm. every player i know has ideas about eve all the time, but if i was running for csm i'd be keeping my ideas to the f&i board where they belong. i suppose you could say corbexx had an agenda during csm9 to get some of the wormholes buffed, but he obviously put the work into getting enough evidence to prove his thinking was along the right lines. given you have over a year before csm11 i'd consider getting the evidence to prove your ideas are valuable otherwise you will just get put on the \"ideas candidate\" ignore list with the dozens of other \"ideas\" candidates who don't get voted in."
"quit trolling with loaded questions.(im sorry isd, i had to)more on topic, op/xenuria, these ideas are relatively vague, pitching an idea and letting ccp work out the details is nice and all, but at least put links to corresponding f&i threads where you elaborate more specifically on where your stated goal for these changes would be and why.aswell as justification for some of the \"proposals\", for instance, why should skins ccp charge money for, be cheaper for people who grind away in highsec getting standings through missions, than for people who arguably supply more content in low/null by focusing on player interaction? on that note, what justification do you propose to anyone getting a discount on cash-shop items, especially ones that can be resold on the market, as this opens to market exploitation, and shutting out people based solely on where in the game they play, this is incredibly bad for any game mechanic that relies on real life cash."
"well the race has been run and i didn't come in the final placings. it's a shame but i'm not going to hide under my duvet and be sad about it. :)i just wanted to say a sincere thank you to everyone who supported me on my csm campaign with encouragement and endorsements and of course to everyone who voted for me regardless of where i was on your ballots.i also want to congratulate the members of csm x - both returning and new - and wish them all the best for the year ahead.i won't rule out another tilt next year but for now i'm just going to concentrate on my other spinning plates.cheers!eve down under - a community for players in the autz"
"mais qui est donc borat guereen ? le myst<U+FFFD>re reste complet"
"i fully support this proposal, not only the spanish speaking community is much bigger than many others that actually get support on their own language but the player base for spanish speaking ppl from many parts of the world is increasing for the past 3 years."
"here you go:"
"i can see how that could be \"really cool\", but i think it wouldn't add enough of an extra for the work that has to go into such a feature. also how did you envision this feature to be implemented? what restrictions would you pose? who's names would be used and if so, how many times? would they randomly spawn or limited depending on how many times a certain capsuleer was killed? or must the capsuleer be killed by a drifter? or should it only be available after a corpse was actually picked up by a drifter?"
"he has already stated that his alts are to remain in wormhole corporations. also, a [condi] tag in no way prevents a player from engaging in wormhole gameplay or conversing with those who do.would be an amusing piece of hypocrisy for some of the more rabid critics to follow through with their threat of purging those alts from wormspace and then saying \"see, he doesnt have any wormhole characters left, what a terrible wormhole representative\"."
"yeah, i'm a little surprised at the uproar over this. seems to be a lot of grr goons mixed in. either way, corbexx knows wormholes, and got elected for such. joining goons doesn't affect that.founder of violet squadron, a small gang npsi community! mail me for more information."
"man this thread. i needed a good laugh."
"did not read all the replies, but op you are wrong.started in 2004, took one break of a year (had a kid)eve has always been a pvp game, always. i remember dealign with can flippers, and bumpers even back in 04. suicide ganking was less becuase there was less money in play in 04, so losing a 100m isk bs to kill a mining crusier was not that smart. also the mining ships in that day were just pvp ships fitted with mining lazers.mechanics changed that made some of the tactics easier to explot, more money in play means its cheaper to sucide and you cna get your stuff replaced faster.eve has always been this way. so if you did not think it was, then you need a new gamedareaperminer by profession, alliance and corp leader by hobby."
"groups like goonswarm helped making scamming and other tactics more viabale and seem to be do able (no not a grr goon, just stating a fact) as more players came into eve more people decided to play the ****. but its always been this way"
"not sure if this is the right place to post but could a csm please ask ccp about the possibility of making fanfest fully plexablei don't have a large amount of disposable income and would love to attend a fanfestbut at the moment while i could cover the fanfest ticket i would not be able to pay for the hotel + airfair.is it possible to use the partner airline and hotel and pay with plex? even at an increased pricefor example 1 plex = <U+FFFD>14ish when buying 28when used for a partner service redeem each plex as being <U+FFFD>8so if flights were <U+FFFD>600 , hotel is <U+FFFD>500 for 5 nights then make it cost 138 plexfor each plex used this way ccp still make <U+FFFD>6 so for every 1 person attending this manner that would be<U+FFFD>1100 for partners<U+FFFD>828 for ccpand that is if plex was bought in bulk. assuming it was from many single plexes ccp would make an additional <U+FFFD>276a person would still need to pay for food/drinks etc for the duration but the bulk of the financial burden is lifted."
"i have a request that we change the input method of the extraction area size from the slider bar option, to a manual number input. obvious reasons, it is simpler to pinpoint that 24/hr period vs a slider that can't ever hit it directly.thank you.-=coz"
"1. go to soundcloud webpage.2. search \"ccp games\" on soundcloud webpage.3. choose playlist that has all music.4. press play button.5. enjoy game music while exploding people."
"on your vanity and ego sectionmy question is : why should standings matter if i'm purchasing aur with real world cash, to get this item? if i was purchasing this with isk then standing should matter."
"i like how, out of 3 issues you want to pitch, 2 are utterly uncontroversial (and just test it for relevancy with the reversal: who would pitch a worse api or ui?), one might be out of the ordinary but is such a small issue it's irrelevant, and all three are things that csm can hardly change. adding to this, it seems like three insignificant issues insofar that you can find a plethora of csm candidates who will promote these and a hoard of other issues, if you really do want to vote for an 'issues' candidate.but this is not all. this is something like your 5th failed candidacy, and the last onestill had questions unanswered.questions central to your (then?) oh-so-important platform of 'csm reform' (which you first tried to write off as removal of voting, then rejected that it should be ccp appointed, leaving it an open question what should happen...), where you \"identified\" a few \"issues\". i quote here the \"issues\" and restate the questions i had to them and the rest of your platform.so, have you learnt something from the failed candidacy?is the subject of \"csm reform\" as important to you as it were in the csm 10 campaign?+1 for this, compared to earlier campaigns, this is merely misunderstanding and bland, not insane and offputting. hooray for progress?makes it all the easier to ask loaded questions. it's a gate so wide, you can load anything into those terms. somewhat like \"occupancy sov\", they can catch 'em all."
"by not giving some benefit to people with good standings you devalue the effort they have already put in."
"but why should ingame effort have an effect on people's ability to spend real life cash into the game?should we also give subscription discounts to people who pvp alot? since they are \"playing it right\" and \"giving content\"?no, because that would be unfair.if these were isk based items, it would be a non-arguement. but they arent. they are cash items.so why, if i am in nullsec pvp'ing all day, and johnny mcnotbot is farming lvl 4 caldari missions all day and doing nothing else, should he only spend 7 usd on ship skins, while im forced to pay say 10 usd?imbalances should never exist in real cash exchanges for video games. because wht your proposing is the isk market for these items should be solely dominated in supply by people who only grind pve, due to the fact theyll have a magnitude more cash efficiency in purchasing these items due to an arbitrary ingame mechanic giving their out of game cash more value than my out of game cash.in short, no, its a terrible idea.on that note, start up these ideas in f&i so we can discuss them there, picking apart your \"proposals\" in this thread, and theyre details, is detracting from the discussion of your candidacy.look at your ideas, expand on them, and write a detailed proposition for how and why they would/should work, with realistic placeholder values for numbers based on where you think it should work, and then link them here, so we can discuss the ideas there, with detail, and focus on your candidacy here."
"2015 is the year of the sheep. 2016 will be the year of the xenuria."
"mods close threads for \"redundancy\" all the time. then new ones pop up, because old one is closed. then when that gets closed, accusations of \"shutting down discussion\" flies around.simple solution - mods must link non-redundant thread when closing a thread for redundancy. new threads stop popping up. discussion ensues in one thread. no more whack-a-mole, no more forum spam. this is already the standard practice of most forums, because it works. not sure why eve-o forum is different.or, merge redundant thread into original thread. while this may create threadnaughts, chances are the original thread already are to begin with. threadnaught is better than hundreds of locked threads spamming the forum, preventing you from finding anything useful."
"but this could significantly reduce the number of threads killed by isd, and why else would one want to be an isd. you're asking turkeys to vote for an extra christmas here."
"except i'm not asking the turkey. in fact, it's not up to the turkey."
"i don't see manual numbers being better unless you call doing calculations easier compared to sliding a bar and see what the timer is."
"it's a hell of a lot easier to press 1 than it is to try and get the slider close enough to 1 day to allow you to use the + - buttons to get to where you want to be.+1"
"or, we could have both options available, i like to just click and drag, repeat, have my other hand doing other things, cant be arsed with typing on the keyboard (no you sickos, writing in a journal timer/amount entries so i know how much of what pi and goo i have where)"
"we can hotkey \"select all\" but not \"stack all.\" why?while i am at it, i can hotkey \"return drones\" but can't \"launch group1' \"launch group 2\". why?help me!"
"never mind, elections are over and it is all irrelevant to me."
"there are already a multitude of benefits for someone with good standings and putting a barrier between people and the payment method is an extremely poor business decision. if someone wants to give ccp money then ccp should (and will) always allow it.while i respect your right to run for csm year after year it might be best to take some time off from campaigning to reacquaint yourself with the game and the community, whether it be your fault or external factors causing it you don't exactly have the best reputation in eve and it would serve you better to network with players and establish new friendships and partnerships before running again."
"so proclus diadochu. raw data is now available and it seems your prediction failed by majestic porpotition. my campaign was very good, altough there are no silver medallions available. i have learned much and next year i will win."
"round beginning - 75 candidates remain36983 votes, 12328 quotainitial talley: 4483 \"sion kumitomo\" 2388 \"sugar kyle\" 2078 \"corebloodbrothers\" 1903 \"corbexx\" 1805 \"chance ravinne\" 1519 \"cagali cagali\" 1354 \"manfred sideous\" 1343 \"sort dragon\" 1276 \"gorga\" 1217 \"steve ronuken\" 1195 \"mike azariah\" 1099 \"uaxdeath\" 928 \"migui x'hyrrn\" 890 \"jayne fillon\" 798 \"thoric frosthammer\" 724 \"lorelei ierendi\" 712 \"xenuria\" 686 \"bam stroker\" 643 \"tora bushido\" 593 \"gorski car\" 478 \"ashterothi\" 477 \"bobmon\" 454 \"june ting\" 441 \"endie\" 429 \"vaari\" 413 \"citricioni\" 404 \"khador vess\" 397 \"erika mizune\" 355 \"sabriz adoudel\" 329 \"alyxportur\" 306 \"xander phoena\" 285 \"nsa bivas\" 281 \"angrod losshelin\" 266 \"ariete\" 263 \"aeon boirelle\" 244 \"psychobitch\" 188 \"janwa resh\" 183 \"purinpu\" 173 \"vic jefferson\" 171 \"psianh auvyander\" 157 \"borat guereen\" 155 \"klapen\" 143 \"lyonic\" 142 \"soelent\" 131 \"leelo dallasmultipas\" 127 \"harry saq\" 122 \"jenshae chiroptera\" 116 \"kasken\" 116 \"cycule\" 109 \"domanark\" 106 \"suzy rc mudstone\" 104 \"radu lupescu\" 101 \"nervon\" 94 \"ryan farmern\" 91 \"decimat draconia\" 89 \"crante\" 86 \"my name isjeff\" 80 \"harek\" 73 \"bane cortex\" 67 \"malis caretia\" 66 \"roban crause\" 63 \"dadrom\" 61 \"erweb maken\" 58 \"kazikai\" 57 \"aradus gunnell\" 43 \"miralissa issa\" 42 \"aiwha\" 38 \"catanafleet red\" 36 \"commander aze\" 31 \"bait'er de'outlier\" 28 \"michael laloush\" 26 \"soul crusher\" 26 \"perosteck neuchatel\" 16 \"justin amalastoner\" 12 \"raiealatar\""
"i wish to thank all who showed their support for my cause. data shows that we were very popular choice, but there are no silver medallions in csm elections. stand firm, stand true and stand faithful. next year we can do it!"
"disappointed you didn't get there for your community input (although i have no idea whether or not i consider you a good or bad choice in regard to game balance decisions).my #5 position didn't seem to get you there."
"on the down side, you didn't win csm x...on the upside, you don't have to be csm x..."
"i have seen people making whole new accounts to try and shake off a history associated with goons."
"and i've seen people deny that the holocaust happened, whats your point?founder of violet squadron, a small gang npsi community! mail me for more information."
"nobody here is talking about barriers. i am saying that standings should make it easier not be the only way. please read the op."
"and were saying ingame activities/stats should never effect the cost of out of game purchaseswhat if people with the top 10 pvp kills every month received a 30% discount on plex? it would be a bad idea."
"please try your best to stay on topic."
"that is on topic, it's a pretty logical evolution. you're asking for an in game mechanic that has nothing to do with anything out of game to give discounts and effectively screwing all of nullsec and all those who don't want to grind standings."
"with the proliferation of structures that ccp has announced, along with the re-balancing of current structures, i think this will become even more useful as time goes on. the more structures there are, the more handy it is to have a ship dedicated to dealing with them. at least the small-medium structures."
"you have enough free time/accounts to make 138 extra plex but not to pay for the trip? i think something is amiss here."
"looking forward to hearing about the ceo who used his corp's srp fund as a travel fund."
"1. undock with eagle2. zoom out3. ???4. profit"
"please can we have a colorblind mode for those of us who have trouble with this. maybe it's not a priority but it would be helpful."
"where exactly is it causing trouble?i have protanomaly, but to the best of my knowledge, i've never had problems in eve (or any other game)."
"hello csm / to whom it may concern.this video from fanfest popped up today:"
"if you don't like it, don't participate in that aspect of gameplay. you still have agency to exercise freedom of choice."
"1) the election seems to be representative of those who voted.2) xenuria - with all respect. no matter how good, correct or righteous your platform is (or is not), people won't elect someone they don't like or identify with. a study of democratic politics shows this. you need to either re-invent yourself to the current voting population (who apparently don't agree with your position), change your position (and approach since it seems to turn people off), mobilize the non-voting mass's behind your 'disenfranchised' revolution, or start planning xenuria csm 11, 12, 13, etc. campaign."
"i have deuteranomaly. accidentally pasted the different kinds in the text box and clicked post. anyway...i have some trouble with wardec targets and corp mates (were it not for the flashing indicator on wardec targets i would never know the difference). also my blue and purple is bad...and the red and orange and yellow. we all know what yellow boxing is right? to me it is orange boxing. you haven't had any problems? then you are very lucky...i on the other hand, have had many problems. interesting fact...many games have a colorblind mode. i did not post this here so that my \"colorblindness\" could be compared to somebody else's. another interesting fact...technically we are not colorblind...we are color deficient, it's a disease. i wouldn't waste my time posting a thread if i didn't have an issue. everybody's experience in eve is different."
"couldn't you change the color settings of the screen via the driver settings or the screen itself and it would be fixed for all programs? i am not color blind myself so i don't know if this would work."
