"when the gallente pleasure hub goes pop and releases the damsel, it creates an aoe wave of damage that affects your ship, your drones, your friends, and everything else...except any npcs in the area.this is horribly immersion-breaking to me as a space pod-pilot, and in a way it breaks the fourth wall (which is unacceptable for my rping and lore-stuff), and should be fixed asap.ccp, make it so!"
"the damsel really shouldn't be fixed until she figures out that going to that pleasure hub is not a good idea."
"the sooner the better"
"well, that is true. but i guess you can't teach an old heroine new tricks"
"hello everyone,i<U+FFFD>m apothne, and i would like to put my name forward to be one of the few to serve eve players and ccp on csm11. my history in evei created my character in 2010, joined a mining corp and had several stop/starts to playing. after an extended break i decided i wanted to learn about the game properly, get out of mining on my own and thus joined eve university. in eve university at the time, there was one scheduled fleet per week called <U+FFFD>noobs on patrol<U+FFFD>, i didn<U+FFFD>t want to wait a week for another one so after something like my second fleet i started taking them out daily, sometimes more than daily. to this day i enjoy maintaining a presence there, i am a guest lecturer and fc, and i have recently started running a focused, hands-on fc training program for them to encourage the next generation of content creators.after something like eight months i joined sniggwaffe with the expressed interest in furthering my ability in fcing. i listened, learned and similarly to e-uni, i earnt my place as one of the main waffle fcs. to this day i am one of the senior directors for them. my love for fcing and fleet combat grew and grew as i got to experience more fleet doctrine ideas, experiment with my own and roam, attend timers, fly in low and null, and fight in everything from huge battles to tiny skirmishes. i<U+FFFD>ve fced public roams for various groups and been invited to different corps/alliances to discuss doctrinal design and give advice to their fleet commanders. it was during my time in waffles that i attended my first fanfest (just booked tickets to 2016, yay!) where i got to present at the last alliance panel (and was the final speaker, i hope it wasn<U+FFFD>t me that killed it). waffles was also where i found my love of eve tournaments, and was surprised to find myself casting atxii, despite being a much younger player than all the others on the panel.in november of 2014, i took the plunge and moved to sniggerdly in pl, tried fcing in a vastly different environment and got to take part in fleets so unlike anything else i have ever done. one of my favourite things about pl is that for a younger to middle aged player it is an amazing learning environment. more recently, my attentions have been focused on the at and now #eve_nt collides both casting the main tournament and hosting the new fight club tournament to let less established groups dip their toes into the tournament waters, as well as trying out soloing and a few other projects of parts of eve i haven<U+FFFD>t really interacted with before. this is one of the wonderful things about eve, there<U+FFFD>s so much to do! even outside of the game there<U+FFFD>s amazing meetups to attend to meet the real people behind the characters. i even got invited back to cast atxiii!why i want to run for csm11those of you who have seen me on the alliance tournament stream, read my articles on crossing zebras, watched the series of cztv episodes i made or have listened to any of the podcasts i<U+FFFD>ve been invited on will have some familiarity with my ideas and raw passion eve. my main strength in this endeavour is my combined patience and enthusiasm. i love to sit down and talk to different people and groups, to discuss their ideas and what they enjoy about their gameplay style. all approaches to eve need to be balanced and interact to produce engaging gameplay, be they aggressor or defender, industrialist or explorer. eve is a giant, beautiful, interconnected living thing.to this end, i think the most important quality of a good csm is the ability to ask questions without already having an answer they want to hear. not only to be present for but really listen to what people are saying to you, to see the problem from their point of view and get a depth of understanding for why they are making the argument they are making. as a csm, my pledge of how i would operate would be to be as open and communicative as possible with the player base, on a personal and group level, to amass as much feedback as possible and be able to present it to ccp in a organised and constructive fashion. let me give an example:let<U+FFFD>s say the next thing being worked on by ccp is highsec war decs. my promise to the players, should i be elected, is that i would reach out to as many people directly involved in highsec wardeccing as possible and sit down and listen and ask questions. when it comes to interviews, i much prefer the james lipton method to a highlight reel of the key points. i want to immerse myself in the different sides of the community it would affect, put a character into a highsec wardeccing corp for example and get a real feel for the situation. i want to hold open <U+FFFD>inverse<U+FFFD> q&as, so for example a whole group of highsec groups could come and talk to me, when i would be the one asking questions, and unlike ccpers i can sit there and listen for as long as it takes for everyone to say what they want to say. i<U+FFFD>d probably aim to host one of those every fortnight to three weeks, with either a given topic that the csm are working on, or anything anyone wants to bring up. i think the approach sugar kyle has taken to the csm has been fantastic, and i want to expand on that approach. in addition, i want to continue a tradition of previous csms who have posted weekly updates with what<U+FFFD>s been going on, even if there<U+FFFD>s not a whole lot that specific week, or if it<U+FFFD>s heavily ndaed."
"a big part, if not the most important part, of the csm as a whole is the interaction with each player party, the csm itself as well as ccp. i believe the primary role of the csm as a body is to enhance communication. i pledge that i will treat every member of the csm, community and ccp with respect and have a polite discussion regarding their viewpoint when performing my role, regardless of what my personal take on the situation is. i may not even agree with that person in the end, but it would be my duty take their viewpoint seriously and do my best to represent it. in my opinion everyone has valid and useful feedback, even if it is tempered by a misunderstanding or bias. it is through sitting down with them, listening and asking questions that you can reach a point of understanding about the crux of their issue, this is what game design decisions need to be made upon. i do not care if i <U+FFFD>win<U+FFFD> or <U+FFFD>lose<U+FFFD> the argument, if i was wrong at the beginning or right. my job as a sounding board and communicator would be to find the truth, not insist i already have it and take any iteration or paradigm shift as a blow to ego. that<U+FFFD>s pointless and unconstructive. being on the csm is not for me, it<U+FFFD>s for everyone else. i<U+FFFD>m not saying i will somehow magically remove any infighting, but it is a principle i think is important to be going in with.thanks to the opportunities i have been given through the alliance tournament, i have already had the chance to work with ccp behind the scenes under nda to some extent, and i would like to think we got on rather well. so often we forget that these are people who love the game as much as the most passionate of players (who tend to get hired and become the ccpers anyway), and i genuinely believe that so much of the angst and drama could have been avoided with better communication. i want to be the one to facilitate that communication. that said, i will be frank and clear when things are wrong. sugar-coating things is only a delay tactic, i believe the correct way to fix something is to get to the point of the difficulty, and then discuss it calmly whilst trying to understand, not just listen to, but understand the ideas behind the views being presented.so that<U+FFFD>s the general stuff out of the way, let<U+FFFD>s talk about my ideas for game development and what direction i would try to help steer the game developers.. i believe i express the core of my philosophy with regard to the future design of eve in my <U+FFFD>f*ck ishtars<U+FFFD> series on crossing zebras. i want the design space of eve to allow for as many tools as possible to be viable to do what you want, such that they engage in interesting decision-making for the players. i believe that it is in those decisions that we find a lot of fun and good gameplay, as well as allowing players who put their time and effort into the understanding of this behemoth of complexity to be rewarded for their skills, be they theoretical or executional. the <U+FFFD>casual player<U+FFFD> who just wants to play for an hour or two to unwind after putting the kids to bed, who doesn<U+FFFD>t want to spend hours and hours studying and practicing eve, should absolutely have a straightforward and fun playstyle that does not require heavy investment. equally, those who do spend hours practicing their piloting and theorycrafting should have an advantage, but that advantage should be reliant on their ability, not just as a function of how much isk they can bring to the field.another issue i want to represent is the transition of phases of eve players from newbro all the way up to 10-year vet. we often talk about <U+FFFD>how does this affect newbros<U+FFFD> or <U+FFFD>aaaagh old players are getting screwed<U+FFFD>, but how does a player develop? when are they a new player, when are they middle-aged? how do changes affect those with 20, 40, 60 or 80m sp rather than just 0 vs. 120? one of the keys to player retention is not just the first week, it<U+FFFD>s the transition phases. i am not a new player any more, but i<U+FFFD>m not old either. through my work with e-uni and some rl friends i work with new players often, and it<U+FFFD>s impossible to be in pl without hearing the viewpoint of players who have played the game since its earliest days either.in summary, i want to be a csm for communication, collaboration, engagement and excitement. i am more than happy to answer questions in specific views i hold to specific aspects of the game in this thread, but i thought that the above is a far more important resource in deciding whether you, as a player, want me to be one of the ones advocating for you to ccp, and for ccp to you. whenever i take on a project, i take it on seriously; when i was given the opportunity to cast the alliance tournament, i damn well did my homework, producing a 32-page document about all the teams, their histories, and kept it updated with matches as they happened, interviewing as many people as possible so every team was represented as well as possible when i spoke about them on stream. i did something similar this year, posting briefer versions on crossing zebras. i can and will work my ass off if elected.i have such passion for his game, i really want to help the csm, ccp and all the players towards making it an even greater game, as well as repairing some of the dissonance between the three parties. if you like the way i think about eve and my proposed approach to serving on the csm, please consider voting for me."
"links to some things i have done that espouse my eve philosophyeverything i<U+FFFD>ve ever done on czcztvf*ck ishtarsmy pre-analysis of the bc changesme on fleet warp changesmy analysis of the state of navy cruisersme on scylla nerfsarticle on fcing and another one about roaming specificallycsm watch interview and analysis showdeclarations of war csm round tableshut up and give us a tl;dri want to stand for an eve that gives players of all time commitments and preferences to playstyle engaging and rewarding content, that they can excel at based on the decisions they make.i want to put all the enthusiasm and passion i have for this game into serving it and the playerbase to the best of my ability. i am not running for this position for my own ego or for more publicity or anything like that, i would want to do it even if it were anonymous. to explain what i want to do in its most concise form is i want to be the person who listens, compiles feedback, organises it in an intelligible and relevant manner, and then present it up and down the communication chain. this, in my opinion, is what the csm is for, and this is what i want to do.i like this image."
"i can think of few people as genuinely passionate about eve online as apothne. he has always put the quality of content for everyone before \"winning\" or any personal or political agenda while maintaining a hands-on knowledge about the game rivaled by few, which is why i am confident he will make one of the best csm that has ever been on the council.do yourself and the community a favour - vote apothne for csmnideneditor-in-chiefcrossing zebrasgmva head diplomatmoira corp | villore accords | gallente militia | lowlife on crossing zebras | @niden_gmva"
"i fully support apothne for the csm.he is well spoken, open minded, and able to listen a variety of opinions.his knowledge, energy, and positive attitude would be of significant benefit to the csm."
"fat + 1 for this guy!#eve_nt website; www.eve-nt.uk blog;"
"maybe daddy needs to accept a few things about his little princess and what she actually wants out of life."
"unfortunately, unless ccp allows sp accumulation at the maximum rate of perfect remap and +5 implants, we're going to end up with dozens to hundreds of whine threads demanding that attributes be brought back.then again, even with max sp accumulation, we're still probably going to end up with those threads."
"at this point in the game, i'd be absofine with them normalizing it at 3000/hr"
"agreed.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"works for me."
"hi friends, my name is xeno szenn and i<U+FFFD>m running for csmxi. a brief history of my time in game: i joined eve uni back in 2013 after a while of having low skill points i bought my current main from the character bazaar. from eve uni i joined waffles and had a blast flying through low sec and null sec. after graduating from waffles i am currently flying with pandemic legion as well as waffles. my eve experience has given me insight into both low sec and null sec play styles as well as a deep appreciation for how differently security status space operates. the most important thing in eve online is player interaction. we as players interact with each other on multiple levels in game. from the most basic chat channel to the wonderful alliance and corporations inhabiting new eden. player interactions have created what we love about the game, not only for pvp but also the incursion communities as well. there is even a role playing community within eve that has made great and interesting contributions to the community. it is my belief that the community is the most important reason for eve to exist. player interaction is what drives conflict and generates content. some people love to mission and do other pve activities but very few people enjoy playing alone. the community is involved in player meets like fanfest and eve vegas and has been for a while. i would like to see a way for more eve players and especially new players to get involved in the community as a whole and form groups or join organizations where they enjoy playing the game and learning from the start.1. more advertisements for player meet ups.2. streamlined corp management and creation tools. 3. new player organizations and npsi groups given permission to be in the new player channel under guidelines. content creation. i play eve online first for the community i fly with and second for the content. i think that given the right tools and reason eve players themselves will provide their own content. an example is the cloud ring aka content ring situation right up to the war that killed it off but even that provided content. individuals stepped up and made that happen. i would like to see additional forms of conflict drivers to create an atmosphere where content is more prevalent and accessible to people. i do believe content should require work to get but any boost in helping content happen would be of major benefit. here are a few areas that i think small adjustments could highly encourage more conflict drivers.1. faction warfare farmers - give them a reason to fight over farm.2. there should be a way to hunt people cloaked in space. i do not think it should be easy to find them but i believe that there should be a way to hunt them. this could provide some interesting game play options. i do not believe it should be easy to hunt them but i do believe it should be possible to.3. war decs. there has to be a reason to fight rather than disband or dock up as well as a way to fight against the deccer.4. give people a reason to want to own sov space. any sov space can provide good income - pandemic horde showed that to me but right now there is no reason to own sov space when you can make better income in high sec or with a faction warfare alt with tier 3 or 4. there should be a reason everyone wants to own sov from the empire builders to the pvpers.5. citadels in my opinion are going to be a massive step in the right direction for this. destroying one provides a loss in both isk and infrastructure. the larger they are the more isk and loss they create. to have meaningful content there has to be a balance in ship design and fleet warfare. that being said you must take into account all aspects of eve gameplay before you nerf or buff anything. every pvp ship can also have a pve use. every ship in solo pvp can also be used for fleet pvp. all of this must be taken into account when looking to make changes and create balance in the game. balance is not just on ship hulls though isk to risk ratios also need to be brought into account. this is a delicate issue but at the core of content creation, and retaining new players once they<U+FFFD>re in the community beginner levels of income need a slight buff while higher levels of income need a slight nerf. the career missions should provide more isk as they can only be done once for each group or a total of 12 times if you do all of them. this is not a direct attack on the income players are currently making, rather a way for newer players to make a starter income to afford to explore the game from the start of their eve experience.1. i fully believe that links or boosters should have to be on grid and be committed to a fight to provide boost. 2. bombers are incredibly overpowered. this has been something that i have personally used to great effect. a small bomber wing can completely devastate a superior force. this is something that they should retain but a small nerf to their movement would be incredibly helpful in reducing their overall impact on null sec. right now shield battleship fleets and battleship fleets in general are very vulnerable to bombers so don<U+FFFD>t see much use in null.3. there needs to be a reason for people to risk ships. right now incursions are very lucrative without much risk as opposed to low sec, null sec or worm holes. i do not believe the answer is to make incursion less profitable but rather increase their risk or make other streams of income more profitable. the drifter incursions are a great start in this direction. this is also something that is hard to do because players min/max eve to get the most rewards with the least risk."
"new eden is not a safe place nor do i think it should ever be a safe place. however there does need to be some security offered. this added security should come in the form of knowledge and getting integrated into a community. the darker side of eve gives us some of the greatest stories as well as writing eve history. it is my belief that rather than giving us mechanics to make eve safer, knowledge and the ability to counter play is critical. for every move someone makes there should be a counter play to it. i do not want a safe eve but i do want an eve with reasons to fight and ways to fight. not every ship should match every ship and not every fleet should be able to engage everything. rather there should be a way within game mechanics to counter everything. numbers, ships, isk and even misinformation should have a counter. making pilots become more active in the counter-plays makes for a more interesting game-play experience and better content over all. overall i think eve is wonderful with this and that the cap changes will go a long way in creating interesting counter play options. high sec, low sec, null sec and wormholes all have a distinct personality and flavor of content and player interactions. this is something that needs to be maintained because if all space becomes similar the different areas of the game lose some of their meaning and it would hurt the game<U+FFFD>s overall performance. i believe that every section of space should be enjoyable and offer unique game play aspects. overall content and content generation along with player communities are the most important aspects of the game to me.the overall goal of this campaign is more to get ideas out there and hopeful spark meaningful discussions. if i do get elected i will work my best for the good of the game and to represent the player base and low sec in particular."
"another big post for imagining what i hope to see with this concept and for it to achieve. i also want to think about the concept of wis from the basics again.to not limit the imagination, i want to try a different term than wis and the most fitting one i could find is <U+FFFD>being in places<U+FFFD>, as i wanted to find a term that was neutral and didn<U+FFFD>t limit in any way. using this term is to suggest that stations, other space structures, and planet areas and bases are meant to be as open-content places where one to a great extent, can choose one<U+FFFD>s own experience. wis was maybe meant only to be in stations, but stations are only one of many places the ideas could work, so i wanted to take away the barrier between stations, other space structures and planet areas, that<U+FFFD>s why i want to call everything just <U+FFFD>being in places<U+FFFD>.the goals are additional ways in which to explore, experience, interact in and imagine new eden, and like otherwise in eve, choosing your focus and content. so, i have tried to think how this could be possible and at the same time think about what would be difficult about it.new eden as a world in itself has almost no limits. but even being a capsuleer has limits and the technical and practical sides of making eve have limits.as being a capsuleer, and the technical and practical sides of making eve are the limits, then the possibilities have to be within these. spaceships are obviously the most important and prominent part of the abilities of a capsuleer. after all, the possibilities coming from being a capsuleer is a result of just those. but one thing is what capsuleers can do, another thing is what they can experience. they can almost only experience that which gives them their abilities, the capsule combined with spaceships, the only other places they can be are the quarters. they can travel to places nearly boundlessly, but never experience or directly engage in the places they go, just look at it or interact with it from a distance. the benefits of being a capsuleer are great but sure are there some disadvantages too.as the sleeper implant was discovered and then the suit technology developed to make capsuleers be able to tolerate air outside the quarters, i can imagine the tumultuous feelings after a long time with life solely being that in the capsule and the quarters.to meet the worlds on planets are only one bonus, as also other opportunities on these and other places are opened. you may see similarities with legion<U+FFFD>s concept, which is the inspiration:on planets the opportunity of looking for artifacts, unattainable from space ships, at abandoned sites.close combat and experimenting with the different suit tech, to find the best match for their skills. opportunities in breaking or claiming new ground on planets for your corp to prosper through. for npc-corp controlled areas on planets i imagine they have set up hubs. for other planets such things might not exist yet, you are just arriving at a natural planet surface, and have to adapt your equipment accordingly. security levels would likely be reflected in if a npc corp and concord are present, and how far you go from the hubs.the same would be with the stations. it is not only planets you could go to, as the sleeper implant and suit allows you to engage in activities going on in stations, as you now can go outside of the quarters. for capsuleers this would mean you could enter the central hub on stations. additional station-like structures you could enter are citadels, like suggested by someone some posts earlier, and also the barges used with the transfers to the planet surfaces.besides stations, you could enter structures at exploration sites. by going inside these structures you can find items unattainable from just spaceships alone, but there would naturally be other hindrances here as well.each of these places would offer different possibilities and experiences, but be a part of the same framework. by showing other sides of capsuleers realities, it allows players to have additional experiences in new eden, like other types of challenges, teamwork, interaction and combat.to have the opportunities of making and imagining your own content, i think it is important that these places are open areas where you can choose to be without having to be in a group or queued for a mission that you have to take part in, in other words not bound to a particular mission or setting. make it possible to join a location without having to take part in a mission, either if there is a mission going on or not.that means that there needs to be unscripted content in these places, which is one thing i think was so good with the legion concept, you could go around searching for sites and artifacts in your own pace. or if you didn<U+FFFD>t want to do that you didn<U+FFFD>t have to. the important thing is that you can choose. whether you would like to invite a friend to a duel, look at battles from a distance, explore or interact with other capsuleers, through the use of dust clones, you<U+FFFD>re free to choose.even if i don<U+FFFD>t know much about developing, i can understand a lot of work would be needed to make all these areas, but here are some things that i think will help.these places doesn<U+FFFD>t need to big, i don<U+FFFD>t see any need to have very large maps or areas. they just need to be large enough to have some room to either explore freely or be interesting maps for fps."
"another thing is that the designs of these places don<U+FFFD>t need to be very unique. the interiors on stations, citadels and exploration structures don<U+FFFD>t need very big variations, and the layouts could be similar.for planets, one could use content and designs that are possible from dust. however, for different planets, the landscapes and skies could be made different, because then it will feel like different worlds. some areas could be dark and make stealth more important and aiming difficult.it isn<U+FFFD>t necessary either to make other than some planets, stations and station-like structures and exploration structures, accessible with dust clones. it is reasonable that the vast majority of them wouldn<U+FFFD>t be accessible in this way, but these would naturally still be available for ship exploration and planetary interaction in eve.also, if this system works, it makes it very flexible to add worlds and areas when there are time and resources to do so. it makes more sense even, as new places are gradually found or made possible to land on.it is likely the case that all of these places will be instanced, but i think as eve is still the full open sandbox, and as long as you can make the connection from the instanced to the full open world, it doesn<U+FFFD>t really matter that much. as long as they<U+FFFD>re attached to the open world, it doesn<U+FFFD>t matter so much if people are on different instance of the same area. i picture it like every instance for every area, as nodes being connected to a central node, which is eve.then there is the challenge with multiple characters in one area and interaction. i think the system in dust would work well. but let<U+FFFD>s have some emotes as well. of course, i couldn<U+FFFD>t be recognized because of the suit, and so my expressions wouldn<U+FFFD>t be visible, but, you could imagine them, and with the unique id-tags accociated with the suit, you would still know it was me and try to anticipate my reactions.if it is technically difficult to achieve realistic expressions, then it may actually be more effective not to show them. and an emote system probably wouldn<U+FFFD>t be able to cover all expressions anyway, so why not leave it to the imagination instead? and as capsuleers would need to have a suit at all times outside the quarters, because of the air and often security issues as well, it doesn<U+FFFD>t feel like this wouldn<U+FFFD>t be the case.emotes could instead focus more on things like gait and posture, and if possible making casual reactions partly automatic, like the system mentioned in an earlier post, which could work when being in the more secure areas, like the station hubs, citadels and planet hubs, where there likely isn<U+FFFD>t an usual fps mode.while walking in stations and the legion project have always been two separate concepts, i think the connection between a wis concept and development of legion is really interesting. i have thought of a few reasons why i think it is a good idea make them into one common development, while still retaining both the great goals that were outlined at the beginning for legion with those for wis.the same game engine as legion is using could be used.since big open landscapes with buildings can be made in legion, i am imagining that station interiors can be too. multiplayer settings can naturally be made in legion, so then i am thinking that would work also in station interiors, exploration structures and other places.it is possible with some kind of interaction between eve and dust already, with communication and orbital strikes, and that<U+FFFD>s on different platforms.even though the range of different suits, tech and skills, would be larger, from the combat suits in warfare missions, to the explorer suits and the likely more design oriented ones for hubs at stations, citadels and hubs on planets, dust already has a working system for this in place. it would be a huge selection of combinations, combing the items and skill tree from dust with a new skill tree and items for exploring. i think there would be a nice challenge in finding the best fit if you need both explorer and combat abilities. even as a group one would have to work to find the best combinations.the basic height, sizes and shapes of suits should perhaps adapt to the eve characters, as it would give some more individuality than just standard suits and shapes. it may be a dust clone, but it would give more connection if it resembles the eve capsuleer even with a suit.legion is using something called unreal engine and the quarters the carbon engine. it seems these engines make things visually different. but here it wouldn<U+FFFD>t matter as the characters have suits outside the captain<U+FFFD>s quarters, so it wouldn<U+FFFD>t be necessary to try to make the characters similar between the two engines. keeping the captain<U+FFFD>s quarters as they are is important though, even if there isn<U+FFFD>t really a practical use for them.this means that capsuleer areas where the air is appropriate and a suit isn<U+FFFD>t necessary are omitted in this concept. but if the carbon engine at a later time can be made to work with several characters simultaneously, then it could be used specially for these areas, which then could be added to stations and to citadels, where they would be reasonable to have.it may be that the possibility of seeing both legion and wis is greater, if they could be made as one development."
"this is an issue i saw raised not too long ago on another website but i think it is a fair one. the whole point of the csm (if i'm right) is for the players to have other players who go to ccp and act as a springboard for ideas? is that correct?so let's say i really like candidate xyz because he's running on a platform of just add more ships and more niches of ships. i vote for him as do enough people to get him elect. then in csm 11, ccp decides new ships isn't in the plans for a new year and they are going with plan b instead. candidate xyz is now a member who is really lacking in expertise. maybe we were fools to vote for him, i mean who needs new ships with cool graphics when null sec empire management is the big issue. however, if we knew ccp gave zero craps about adding new ships during csm 11, we could have voted on someone who knew more about the needs of alliances in null sec.so before we vote in a csm election (csm 12 at the earliest i guess because of the timing) shouldn't we the players know what is or isn't on the table before we vote? wouldn't that help us get a better idea on who is or isn't a good candidate?that's a topic i'd like someone in the csm to bring up to ccp. what are the issues that ccp is going to act on in the upcoming year so we know who we should be bloody voting for? if ccp is going to be adding 10 new classes of ships, i'm going to care a lot more than if ccp is concerned with the feng shui of 100+ ship fleets in the upcoming year. if ccp is only going to focus on null alliances in 16, well i can't be bothered to vote for anyone because i don't really give a crap about null alliances either way. i'd also at least have an idea who to vote for or not based upon whatever their stances are. so if it's the 10 new classes of ships year i know xyz is at least worth looking at. if it's the feng shui of fleet arranging, i need to look at someone else. the key to a good karma fleet is getting your feng shui in order. putting your logi to the west on a tuesday is just asking for a butt whipping and i'd hate for ccp to screw that up."
"i think it's probably more important for people to understand the role of csm.someone who has a platform of changes they want to make, doesn't get it. the csm doesn't get to make changes. they can lobby for them, but, in general, ccp doesn't pay a huge amount of attention to that lobbying (small stuff sure, but if it'll need a whole dev team, it probably won't happen)the csm is there to provide advice, feedback and guidance to ccp. nothing more, nothing less. ideally you want people who either have deep experience in a few places, or a some experience over a lot of places.that's not to say people shouldn't say what they'd like to see changed. but that's to give the voters insight into how that person's mind works."
"thank you for replying. i guess lobbying for changes was the wrong way to put it. still, if it is about giving feedback and advice to ccp, shouldn't we have some idea what ccp is up to for the next year so we can better make sure the people we elect have the right experience? i mean i know a few people are going to get in because of null sec so let's go with that. if half the people get elected for their knowledge of null sec, but they aren't really all that great with non-null sec matters (just an example), and ccp turns it's focus to all things high-sec, half the csm wouldn't know what they are talking about. so yes, i think you are right in that we should look for people with deep knowledge in a few things or broad experience all over, that's still a bit of a gamble either way. the guy you vote for may not be able to help out much if he's deep in a few things however if he knows a little about everything he might have some advice to give, but he won't be the expert that you'd really want in there."
"something that's also worth bearing in mind (just as a general point. this isn't a targeted response) is that changes should be looked at as holisticly as possible. there are very few changes which only affect one bit of space. so it's always worth having people able to comment on effects elsewhere."
"this year you will make it!"
"i think you never updated your post with the reaction to the second question, and i would like to see your response."
"removed an off topic post. for the record, threads autolock after a period of inactivity. if you have a campaign thread that autolocked, you can file a support ticket and a gm may unlock it."
"what exactly do you hope to change or fix? i've read and re-read your op to find what you plan on doing if elected, but all i can see is your background and qualifications (which are excellent)."
"correct me if i'm wrong here, but you appear not to have any particular area of interest or focus, should you be elected, other than a procedural slant towards maintaining the operation/running/mandate of the csm itself. is that a fair interpretation of your words?"
"well that is quite easy. nothign in particular. the csm job is not to \"fix\" the game. the csm is a tool for the players and for ccp. i'm here to provide an efficient way for players to understand ccp and otherwise. i'm not here to play \"game developper junior.\" if i wanted that, i would apply for a job at ccp.now if you want to know what are the are of the game that i think need attention (but are gettig it as far as i can see from ccpers talk on the media) attributes. or getting rid of them, or finding a way to redesign them into a meaningful thing. the sp bonus does not really make a lot of sense right now. general redesign of all mechanic to give a better defined identity and set of goal and tools to each part of space. a non exhaustive list would include wardec, nullsec upgrading, reactions, moon mining, standings, sec status, drugs mechanics. more communications from the csm toward players. the csm provide an impressive tool to ccp by being able to enter player own channels and convey ccp mind and vision into them. eve changed a lot in the five last years and the csm did an amazing work carrying player thinking and feeling to ccp. it is time the csm begin to work the other way too.i think you miss a point here. i believe that the main point of the csm is to provide a conduit for players and ccp to talk to each other and give access to otherwise obscure channels. i don't think it is nothing.if you want to see more than that. well i'm a really active player inside pfr; i believe in a certain view of nullsec with some independant entity. and i believe the economy and the link between the players are what make eve a so different game.if you want even mor,e you will have to go read my article in crossing zebras where i have more place to disgress and explain my thinking. i will update the main post regularly."
"rest assured that apoth will push more for the small guy troubles and worries (eve uni / waffles) than be a pl mouthpiece+1"
"xeno is a good guy, a good fc and devoted to the game.+1"
"firstedit: actually second"
"yay.... vote xeno :)"
"xeno is a great guy. came to waffles from e-uni and is now in snigg. he started fcing and created a lot of content. he is a senior director in waffles now as well as one of the best guys to fly with. defenitely my first choice."
"+1 for xeno. i couldn't imagine a better csm candidate."
"we the people. true salt of eve, ask equal treatment! loyal subjects of the sansha nation, angel cartel, serpentis corporation, guristas pirates kindly ask for equal access to faction equipment that is constantly stolen, by offending capsulers all across our home space. why people who assalut our beloved nations are the only ones that can obtain this equipment? loyal subjects like us, fighting every day in the name of our beloved nations, should have access to this equipment by lp stores. why only vile nations like caldari , gallente , minamatar , and other minor and unimportant factions offer discounted equipment to their minions ?we ask politely our beloved leaders to install proper scanning equipment across our space so we finally can track and obliterate concord forces making daily trips to our homes, just to kill the innocient!why forces of caldari , gallente , minamatar and other extremist are allowed to move in our space without allowing proper and swift intervention of loyal capsulers ?let us strike them, raid their supply depots, undermine their nations, and steal their technology. many of us dedicated life to fight this terrorist threat!help us protect our homes and families!make us complete!help and save innocent! post your support here!"
"came in expecting rant against highsec gankers.left pleasantly surprised.as to the suggestion, while i'd like to see the prices for pirate gear plummet like this would cause, making it cheaper to fit my ships, as someone who also sells these things on the market after i rip them from the twisted hulks of your countrymen's dead ships, i also don't want the prices to plummet."
"gurista mods are really cheap, just fit you ship with those."
"it is annoying that when you live and support specific faction, the only ones that have access to the equipment from this faction are people that are farming it."
"you can be certain that even if he gets a top spot on our ballot, enough imperium people hate him for old reasons to bump him off their ballot completely"
"my thought process on changes goes something like this:1) how can i abuse the crap out of this for my own gain?2) if i can abuse this new change, why is this bad for everyone as a whole?3) how can this be improved upon so people can't abuse the crap out of it?"
"i kinda like the idea of being a pl mouthpiece if it means i get handsome nerds like elise and rocketx blowing me."
"apothne is a good man and has proven he's a total dork that's in love with eve."
"odd, but i run angel missions on an alt & am able to buy their stuff. you must be doing it wrong."
"all of it or only : ship bpc/hulls that have prices not touched for years, dread ammo, faction ammo( that in many cases is much worst than one offered by higsec factions), faction implants ... and thats it. why we cannot get all other modules?just to be sure it is about faction not deadspace modules. why we cannot raid caldari navy or a concord sites in null space?"
"because they aren't there?"
"so you see the problem."
"thank you anoron --- i could have sworn i updated it. for simplicity's sake i will post replies based on the platforms of each csm x member on the \"your csm\" page.steve ronuken: \"the scale of pos is also important. a unified system, scaling up from the personal depot, to the mighty outpost. a unified system where you don't need to tear down all your labs, to upgrade a medium tower to a large tower.\" this sentence from his campaign platform alone was what won me over for him. he presents in his platform a very nice combination of advocacy for support of third-party tools and increased agency in industry. while i am not an industrialist by nature, it aligns very well with my ideas. it helps that he's a generally cool guy :)sion kumitomo: due to my long time spent working with tmc and thus alongside and under sion, i will abstain from commentary on his platform due to a strong risk of bias. i will leave any comments at the fact that he was very intelligent, well-organized, and pleasant to work alongside. sugar kyle: also a kyle. thus awesome. in more seriousness, two statements that make me really agree with sugar kyle come from the csm ix campaign thread: \"low sec suffers from an identity crises brought on by the tiered approach of high -> low -> null.\"and,\"corporation management interface - the unintuitive, obscure nature of the corporation interface needs a complete overhaul. \"gorski car: honestly pretty ambivalent. he seems like a cool dude on reddit, which is a plus. mike: while i haven't seen a huge amount from him, the whole concept of having someone a little more casual on the csm is actually a really good idea, especially in the face of so many people who shriek \"no poors allowed.\"corbexx and endie i will also refrain from commenting upon in the face of accusations about bias as they are parts of my coalition, with the caveat that endie in particular seems to always speak his mind and i really appreciate that in a person>sort dragon's platform is specifically left vague. i'm not sure what to make of it honestly. i don't agree with the idea of \"i have no platform per se beyond the idea of make everywhere better.\" though the sentiment of focusing on something besides just 0.0 is nice i guess.uaxdeath: i did not enjoy interviewing this guy for tmc during my time, and i felt like his priorities for nullsec were a little bit strange. honestly, it could be a cultural thing, but sma has been called a carebear alliance hundreds of times and we adapted to fozziesov just fine, so for him to say \"we need more buffs for the defenders\" just makes it sound like he wants nothing more than to plex in peace. thoric frosthammer i will also refrain from commenting upon as he is a member of imp and once again accusations of bias abound. however, during my time at tmc i noted him as a very well-informed man with a reasonable amount of patience. chance: cool, but i don't understand marketing. i'm confident though that chance does :p jayne: \"none of these groups operate in game with anything other than a chat channel and a mailing list.there is literally nothing else in game for these groups to use, and this needs to change.\"love it. seriously. very similar to what i've been saying.cagali: while some of the repetition and wording of the platform rubs me wrong, at the same time the idea of pushing the newbie agenda and keeping those who don't have the full picture engaged is a very noble goal.so that's it in a nutshell. i'd be lying if i said all of this was hugely comprehensive, i'll admit. however, i wasn't hugely politically active when csm x was a thing and i've had a lot of learning and catching up to do."
"so people can see and read the conversations i am having about this i will link them here in this post and keep it updated."
"i really want wis, and i think wis should be free2play. let players walk around stations for free, and create a bunch of gameplay in the stations full of microtransactions and junk.in a world where f2p microtransactions are pulling in tons of profit, it would be nice to see ccp get some of that. wis would be a way to unite eveonline with f2p microtransactions and not effect the eve game itself.this would also serve as a way to convert free players into paid eve players. connecting free players to rich plexdaddies who might buy them a few months gametime. all sorts of opportunity for profit and fun let eve players transport 'walkers' to new stations (would require \"walking in ships!!!\"... or at least ship cargo holds...)and because this would be hella fun to blow up and see 50 corpses fly out the side of the hull just do it already"
"so if im running a personal corporation with my personal assets in the corp... and i allow a couple friends to join just to avoid taxes...they can steal all my **** if i take a break from the game?so, instead of you being careful, and not putting anything you dont want to lose in someone else's corp...you want to put the burden on the ceo, so he has to worry about not using putting **** in he doesnt want to lose?just reform the corporation under a more reliable ceo, and ask for your **** back when your old ceo comes back. otherwise your **** is lost welcome to eve"
"ccp: put a player alt into imperium and come join us for our entosis fleets, see the joy you bring us firsthand."
"the new command destroyers are a huge boost to small gang subcaps.also, stop thinking about subcaps and caps as hugely different. your frigate and a battleship share the same difference, should we hate on battleships just because we dont have one and that guy does?"
"finish walking in stations and make the wis part of the game free2play"
"she's not a damsel, she's just a crack whore. thats why she keeps running back to that bastard dealer"
"hi, first sorry for my bad english.i recently 1-2weeks max had knowledge of the changes of links and how on theory all links will be on-grid. and i opended a ticket to ccp that i got answer and along with other thinks he advice me to make a post on this part of the forum regarding some ideas i had there.so just going to make a quick recap, i have a main and a 28m sp alt account, not much... and like 3month ago i decided training for links that why i could use my alt to link while my alliance where defending our system and stuff like that. so having 0 combat skill except drones. i decided training for a t3 trained for legion / tengu and started the process of training (still on it.. )so this change affect me and started researching why it was going to be change and the ideas i got it out mainly where this ones:-people want solo pvp and fair pvp in low sec. -fw need to be fair.-3v1 and stell lost cause of linksstuff related with fw, solo pvp small group pvp along thoose lines. i know for a fact that most/all pvp null alliances use link on grid with command ships. but besides having no weapons or 1 waepon. command ships can have a nasty tank! so i started thinking of a think ideas how ccp could implement this new link \"rebalance\" or whatever you want to call it.maybe im wrong but:most fw or even solo pvp happen in small rig ships frigs - destroyer class, and i can understand you want a fair fight but the other frigs is going +800m/s them you with low sig etc like \"how is this fair\"?! i total get you guys that complain about links but let think of smart ideas.change links. new command destroyer only give links to small sized rigs ships. and can only fit 1 link per ship, and thoose are a must have on the grid. so if you see 1-2-3-4 you can \"predict\" what link they are using. other - links for small size ships are reduce by whatever % and incressing by the class of the ship. i really dont think a bs moving 100/ms faster with mwd really does the diference but thoose 30% on some frigs or even kiting cruiser are omfg.you can say t3 can me almost scan immune, so you can be on the grid but be almost imune scan, but a good prober with a few implants will get you, and if you on the grid even easier/faster. t3 have no tank no weapons compared with other links ships, puting this ships on grid is a fair fight?! like ganking miner and indys? to a expensive ship and a ship you loose sp.. nice! i must ask will you be able to warp the link ship to 10k from fleet if even so that way if you have lucky and they dont have a lvl 5 prober the only way they will get the link ships is by burning 10k on that direction? and i do must ask, how will people in incursion going to take the acelaration gate with a 1b t3 link ship? people in wh ... like honestly puting all links on grid because, of fw and small ships is not going to be fair for alot of other people!! maybe giving links to t2 ships and higher t2 cruiser - t3 cruiser - bs and so on... that way people wanting doing fair fw and small gang pvp all would be on the same foot. or more drastic remove links from low sec. like in null i dont think noone complains about links pure and simple. in high sec if you using ir for incursion or mission or if you a wardec coorp that is hunting. all this honestly are fine with me. i dont think links do the diferent in suicide ganks so... i think that is the only think that links dont do **** :) concord power! and wh also more them ok links there.i also come along this idea, when i though well maybe they arent going to listen to nothing of this ideas and going to do a huge nerf to links and making them useless for pvp at lest to much risk involve... and with take f@king up other part of the game... i know you pvp dont like but eve isnt all about pvp, there is mining pve exploration etc etc... so there are other that enjoy that, and the same way i understand the asking for \"fair fight\" i do hope i dont get flamed. but if all link are going to be on grid independ what ships, if in high-low-nul or wh . i do must ask for a option that i think should have been implented a while ago.. skill points remap. like once per year you would be able to remap your skill points or a part of it specially the ones that are going to be nerf not rebalance nerf is the right word, that when i started training didn't know the change and invested a few month of training payed training that i can't even \"change my skill points\" something that i supposedly payed for it.this where resume off some ideas i had i think great ideas come from sharing of ideas with the same objective turning stuff more fair and equal.sorry for the long text and ty for reading."
"i'm sure there's gotta be some more people willing to post their support for this proposal.it's a good proposal that can't be exploited.dmc"
"i think the whole air issue is just a lie of concord, the ccp corp. and the government to keep us capsuleers separated and under control. our physiology is pretty much the same as of \"normal\" humans, so i doubt that we need for example special suits to go out and have some fun.there must be an other reason why they don't want us out. are we capsuleers really so dangerous? well some of us killed thousands of innocent miners and freighter pilots. in such cases i can understand to lock them up but we aren't all the same.did one of you ever tried to break through the door? i already would have done that but there are no proper tools in my quarteer (?coincidence?) and i dont have the power to do that with my bare hands alone.are we just subjects in an experiment, how long a capsuleer can live isolated before going nuts?please, i always was a good capsuleer. i always paid my taxes and pilot license extensions, never raged, vandalized or killed innocent pilots. - please let me out, i just can't live like this anymore!"
"if you work has a logi need to be recognized and appreciated on a killmail. maybe you playing the wrong role. why appear on a killmail and be on a kill and not appear the % repair when a ship goes down get destroy and reps wherent enough to save them just to see if any logi bro where sleeping! but puting logi on the kill mail just for the good of being in the killmail... greed more! maybe if you where giving remote tracking or sensor booster.. but even them will links ships will be on kill mails also? thoose do more them logi sometimes!"
"i rather agree with thisthere is an awful lot of mythology about what eve is, and how it should be played, that is less than helpful"
"in speaking to gm arkken, it was recommended i post this to the csm groups. i am seeking, or suggesting, a small modification to the pilot skill training system.it is only a convenience thing, but when you try to start skill training on a pilot, it alerts you that you're already skill training elsewhere, and offers you the option to buy plex for dual skill. in order to swap pilot skill training, you need to log in, pause one pilot, log out, log back in, to start on another pilot. can you please consider an option to simply pause skill training on your other pilot (same account), and start skill training on the current pilot from the skill screen without needing to log in and back out to do so?"
"the damage don't get tracked correctly when reps are applied on a kill (only enough damage to kill the ship is shown even if you repped the ship 100 times over) and you think the data for reps would actually mean anything? add to that the over-repping effect the new longer cycle time will bring and it become kind of moot.the role should already be appreciated by itself without the need to appear on kill/loss reports anyway. it's like people rage about how powerfull logi are and how game breaking it was and then can't appreciate themselves for doing that work because \"muh killboard!!!\"..."
"if you want more subscap action, undock one and shoot someone."
"just wanted to drop by and say joffy followed up and contacted me a couple of times in game like he said he would. i appreciate people who do what they say they will. i have no doubt that joffy will put effort into helping eve, if he is elected and given the chance. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"thanks to everyone for the kind words ;)i am not a lazy campaigner, i am just super busy working on several community projects. i vow to spend time on this campaign more as soon as my schedule frees up a little! ;)xxx#eve_nt website; www.eve-nt.uk blog;"
"well this definitely blew up while i was doing other things. i'm glad to see there is still support, and i hope that we can get some kind of immersion creation from it that would expand the depth of new eden for all of us.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i'm also active on slack so feel free to ask me anything"
"the short versioni am officially announcing my candidacy for the 11th council of stellar management.i will be running solely as a reform candidate.if elected i will advocate for sweeping reforms to the csm, it's relationship dynamics with ccp and the electoral process itself.the long version~not long ago~there was a time when i ran as a reformist candidate and was laughed at by the mainstream establishment, one former csm member even went so far as to compare my reforms to the gestapo. this was a time of great trepidation and ignorance a wellspring of naivety and uncertainty. ~soon after~controversy after controversy rattled the csm and the eve community. absentee delegates, nda violators and other assorted cloves of drama and dysfunction. discord and demagoguery reign like a paranoid tyrant. ~present day~the multitudes cry out for reform as the very foundations of the eve community tremble. vote xenuria csmthis wouldn't be a xenuria thread without a vain selfie so, here."
"define reform"
"noun1.the improvement or amendment of what is wrong, corrupt, unsatisfactory, etc.:social reform; spelling reform.2.an instance of this.3.the amendment of conduct, belief, etc.verb (used with object)4.to change to a better state, form, etc.; improve by alteration, substitution, abolition, etc.5.to cause (a person) to abandon wrong or evil ways of life or conduct.6.to put an end to (abuses, disorders, etc.).7.chemistry. to subject to the process of reforming, as in refining petroleum.verb (used without object)8.to abandon evil conduct or error:the drunkard promised to reform."
"as former diplomat and leadership of against all authorities, an alliance of russian known for our equal opportunity advancement and tolerance program, i fully support xenuria."
"first off: i somehow like you.eventhough i only saw some parts of your extended discussion in corp chat.you jump to conclusions pretty quick. you get emotional. you get pretty attached to your point of view.but you don't back off that easily & you certainly don't let others overtalk you. pretty much the shithead the csm could realy use.so eventhough i'm not sure if you're pretty clever or maximum borderline i'll support you."
"a vote for xenuria is a trendy vote."
"a vote for xenuria is a vote for turtlenecks."
"elect a player to speak for players, much like voting for a citizen, to represent citizens.if you vote at all for a bloc candidate of any sort, you get what you vote for. i do not stand for any one particular playstyle, nor would i advocate solely on one play style's behalf, nor am i beholden to any interests. there's a damn good chance whatever your thing is in this game, be it ganking in hisec or roaming fw space, i've done it - a lot. just like you, i am a player, not a bloc sponsored and endorsed mouthpiece, and i want the game to be better, not my gaming of new eden to be more efficient."
"this sounds like fun"
"xeno is a good person who is both passionate about the game and very calm and level headed."
"campaign posterthe csm is in horrible state. members leak they represent big null powerblocks who game the election with spy candidates (ali aras, corbexx...) they openly feud to the point where endie called another member a nazi war criminal they lost the trust of ccp players barely vote since it's clear the csm isn't representing them the final straw was member sion suggesting them to get control over which player can talk to ccp by special forums where csm decides who can post to ccp and what the ultimate problem: eve is a competitive (pvp) game, where groups of players fight each other. each player is biased for his playstyle and make suggestions that are directly conflicting with the interests of other player groups: for example miners want harder ganking while gankers want easier. being well-informed and experienced in the game makes no one a good advisor to ccp, it makes him a dangerous snake who will influence devs to cater to his group at the expense of other groups. my thoughts are about helping highsec groups and groups like moa while directly hurting goons. for me as player, that's completely fair. for me as csm member, that's a clear abuse of my position as i must serve the whole playerbase which include goons. the only way for me to be unbiased is to keep my mouth shut. same for everyone else.so i call all players to boycott the csmxi election! this obviously means not to vote for me either! my candidacy is only to be able to speak in csm election forums, participate in csm candidate interviews and such. if enough trolls vote for me to be elected, i solemnly swear to be completely inactive on the csmxi until removed and will never offer my biased crap to ccp.my idea is that if enough people take my advice and vote for nobody, csm will be shut down and ccp will only listen to devs. while they will have their shortcomings and mistakes (who doesn't), at least they will be unbiased and genuinely interested in the long-term survival of the game.vote for the end of csm! vote for nobody!"
"political candidate campaigning on the platform of the system is corrupt and needs to die in a fire... what could possibly go wrong."
"so much yes. yes yes yes."
"the csm may have it's faults but it's certainly better to have it than to not. either way, this is not the right venue for you to voice your hate, this is for people who are actually interested in campaigning and becoming a csm member which it is obvious you are not."
"are you worried that being on the csm will mean you'll have less time for blogging?--- please have less time for blogging"
"how do your potential voters know that you will not be like the politicians who say \"we are for reducing/removing the eu parliament\", then pitch up and enjoy all the freebies once elected?"
"i disagree and i believe i'm not alone. let the people decide on this topic. if the voter turnout increases from last year, they decided against me. if it decreases, they with me. if they vote me in, they are with me and they are trolls. they don't have to trust me. i'm not asking anyone to vote for me, i asked them to not vote. i explicitly called those who vote for me \"trolls\"."
"i fully support this."
"gevlon goblin is an honorable man with pure intentions and has my full endorsement for csm xi."
"ahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha"
"i have already unvoted."
"i, forum representative of the wildly innappropriate corporation, too hereby endorse gevlon goblin of the science and trade institute for csm xi."
"gevlon's blog is a bastion of sanity and reason in a insane universe, and he has my full support for csm. just do the math, people!"
"i support gevlon's message. to do your part for a goon-free csm, vote gevlon or don't vote at all."
"thank you dear sir! you were my inspiration to run for csm, as the hard work of you and your good friend and alliance mate endie made my campaign necessary. if csm members were like sugar kyle, i wouldn't have a chance. i'm looking forward to work with both of you and with xenuria. i'm sure we'll have wonderful time together drinking the beers that ccp falcon will invite us for."
"having gotten a feel for gevlon over the past few years of reading his blog, if this were the case he is a master of deception the mittani could only hope and dream to be. however, i doubt that. gevlon has been pretty open and strightforward, so i doubt he would be your typical politician. edit: that said: i think i might pitch into this as well."
"i for one can't wait for a xenuria x gevlon goblin csm"
"they could always vote for me, i don't know -insert word- about the game. in fact, i would always ask ccp for 1.4 quintillion isk, or something equivalent to 3^1.7trillion isk."
"i shall vote for you, not only to troll but also to show up in the \"definitely against csm\" category."
"after creating a ticket and explaining my protest, ccp told me that my protest can only be heard through csm.after the last path changes was made on some modules in the game. changes are not something new in eve and as a trader i am used to such changes.unfortunately the last change that was made on small gremlin compact energy neutralizer and medium gremlin compact energy neutralizer was not the kind i have seen befor.these two items already existed before the december release 1.0 patch, thus the value of the item was already determined. after the december release 1.0 path ccp converted 2 times; medium unstable power fluctuator i small unstable power fluctuator i to these items(below), thus devaluing my stock of medium unstable power fluctuator i small unstable power fluctuator i.ccp decided that one item in the game with a specific value must be changed to another item which also had a specific value, this devaluation was determined by the value of the existing item that these two items was converted to.if the conversion lead to a new item then i would have accepted the value of that new item, this kind of uncertainty is part of eve.if the conversion even lead to removal of these two items then that would also be acceptable. i need your help to reach ccp with the message that the choice to devalue the items goes against the so called \"free market\" principle they enjoy bragging about.in eves free market you don't convert apples to potatoes. in free market i must decide if i want my apples to be converted to less valued potatoes(compared to apples)."
"this is not the first time ccp has done this (see: other modules and ships have been rebalanced/repurposed... making them worth more or less than before).no one has been reimbursed for any of these changes. ever.oh... and ccp does not set the price of the modules you are talking about. that is determined by the players. other players felt that the rebalanced module was not worth as much as the old module."
"unclear weather this is bad or good. turtlenecks look good with leather skirts."
"a vote for xenuria is a vote for entropy. xenuria '16!"
"active in the community, knows his ****, would be a great start to rebuilding the csm for sure. he's got my vote"
"hello new eden <U+FFFD> welcome to a brighter and better future! my name is wyld and today i come before you to stand as a candidate in csmxi. it is on this day that we new eden have the opportunity to become something greater, some bigger, but at the same time something that we always have been <U+FFFD> a diverse and fierce player base! a lot of other candidates offer either some change that they hope you believe in or cynical frustration in the status quo. that is fine for those that are not you and me, my friends. that is fine for those who like to post on the internet their daily dinners and make comments about restaurants. is that what you are? is that what you want people to be? maybe? no! each player, each of you, is a unique snowflake. you need someone who understands how special you are and what you offer to the game, but most importantly, you need a voice that is louder and stronger than the rest. thus, i am entering this race to be that voice! to be that presence that brings your needs to the virtual council that will hear your screams in space and to stand tall and proud on your behalf. a lot of candidates put their name in the hat with prestigious pedigrees outlining their great accomplishments. if you<U+FFFD>d like a resume of how irrelevant all that is to how that impacts you i offer you the match.com of professional site <U+FFFD> linked.com. what i am offering is a simple platform <U+FFFD> power to the players, a voice louder and drunker than any other, and a commitment to probably do horribly bad things.other candidates will make you promises they can<U+FFFD>t keep. i ask you to remember student councils around the world. did any of them ever fulfill their promise? did they truly bring change? i hear thousands of <U+FFFD>no<U+FFFD>s scream through new eden. but i offer you a brighter and better future <U+FFFD> one of realistic dreams with a solid foundation in alcohol that together we can keep the game pretty much exactly as it is, but with new things that will probably annoy or **** off some large group of people, but in that i will listen and yell for you <U+FFFD> the player!a vote for wyld is a vote for you! thank you, new eden!"
"and obviously, as with any election, i will now answer any questions that you may have -i forgot to mention - i am the only candidate with an actual awesome 4 letter name. try to find another player with a 4 letter name. did you find one? no, vote wyldthis space reserved for drunken sound cloud quips and other fun tidbits in the future-"
"vote ! p.s. intergalactic kegger every 3rd friday?"
"kyle is swell guy, having worked with him for several months on tmc can say that hes a driven dude who wants to get **** done."
"i endorse this product and/or service"
"you mean the one who actually is a neo nazi? are you confusing the two terms?"
"the people can decide by not voting. you're post here is not for a campaign, you have made it clear you will not serve on the csm, and thus this entire post is not fit for this section of the forum. you clearly have absolutely nothing of value to add to this community.you want the csm to be destroyed for what? out of some strange idea that you think ccp will then stop listening to players? they most certainly won't, and if anything you'll give more power to the groups you hate. it's also a joke to think that you getting votes will do anything to destroy the csm in the first place. once again this is a badly thought out plan with no hope of success, and all you are doing here is clogging up a serious forum with your shockingly irrational anger filled rubbish.isds should just move this to gd where it belongs. the csm campaigns forum is for csm campaigns, not for whining about the existence of the csm.edit: out of curiosity, what exactly is the best you can hope for? i mean if ccp even lets you run (which i doubt since you've stated that you won't actually be on the csm), the best you can hope for is you get some votes, get in, get booted and they replace you with the next member on the vote list."
"oh luccuy darling get with the program please. your missing the point so hard and thats just sad. take your lead from your glorious leaders and endorse the post. they understand so trust them."
"no i totally understand the point, they are considering this the joke it is and going along with it. i don't take my lead from them, being an individual and all, i form my own opinions, and imho i don't think that joke campaigns have any place in this particular forum. if this guy wants to cry about the existence of the csm and come up with yet another crazy scheme to accomplish nothing he should do it in the sections of the forum designated for nonsense posts."
"i was delighted by the blog post, then dismayed when i read it. i think you know why, i think you have much to offer to eve online if you weren't being distracted by your (star wars quote!) \"**** fool crusade\". your guides on anti ganking, on trading and on ganking i still link to relevant new people!. your guides on how you started, early dist mission running is how i actually play this game. it's fun and i find it relaxing. i wish the csm was a positive institution to which you could contribute. your ideas about a non dec high sec npc corp and how to balance this aren't something i think should be mocked, rather taken on board. i think if you were given a channel to ccp devs direct instead of only gaining attention via shock posts you would probably be able to help them improve the game if they were listening to the csm... except they aren't listening. sion and sugar and others have made this clear. therefore my (non)vote belongs to you. i hereby declare all my accounts will (not) be voting for gevlon goblin. let the best man (not) win."
"you think its a joke? its not."
"right, so sion wants more input from players that aren't on the csm by creating focus groups. your point is?yes, this campaign is a joke. gevlon has stated that he has no intention of actually doing the job of a csm member. this is one of his usual grabs for attention, that's all."
"point is ccp needs to reform csm. even if it started out as a cynical ploy to just shut us up after the greed gate riots, its lost its power now and needs re looking at. sion, gevlon, csm reps all the way back to csm 1... they all saying the same thing man. maybe ya think gevlons a joke? hey how about every single person votes just for sion and leaves every other card blank then? so he is our only rep and we send him to ccp with the platform \"hey your customers think you should take customer relations seriously\"? is that a joke?"
"no, they aren't. sion wants to keep the csm but want it to be listened to more, with other players able to get involved through focus groups. gevlon wants the csm gone because he thinks without the csm, ccp will stop listening to players and that somehow that would destroy the evil goonies. they are absolutely nothing alike.i didn't say gevlon is a joke, i said his campaign - which he has stated himself is not a serious run at becoming a csm member as he will not participate - is a joke. i think that we should vote for who we think will represent us well, from a selection of candidates who want to help the game. if peopel want to protest about the csms existence, this is not the place for it.i'm honestly not sure how you don;t understand this."
"gevlon has stated he will not stand.that is what lucas thinks is a joke.....if he was to stand on a platform of \"i will push for the csm being broken up and recreated in another form\", then that would be a platform.xenuria is running on a reform platform, as are several others. they have actually said they will be on the csm."
"i strongly disagree. this is the exact correct place for it and it is not a joke.voting for gevlon gives a strong \"none of the above\" option.in other words, ccp will get a quantitative idea of how many engaged players believe that the csm in its current form is broken beyond repair.whatever the eventual number turns out to be, it will be both serious and informative."
"i strongly suggest you to not vote at all! ccp sees which players who were busy voters in the previous years stopped voting.one of the crucial problems of csm is the total inaccountability of representatives, members can even do what corbexx did with no consequences. you don't know me. you don't know what i'd do in the council, especially if i get a high vote. maybe i'm a narcissistic little **** who just enjoys being important. or maybe i can be \"convinced\" to participate, just like blawrf was convinced by the mittani to reconsider his position. it's easy to judge corbexx, but you don't know what happened to him and how you'd act in his place. you can trust in devs, since their employer would stand behind them in the case of a doxxing/cyberbullying/defaming attack but would destroy their career or even press charges if they'd take bribe. the company has money, lawyers and a very strong reason to not let eve be destroyed. you can trust in this institutional system, you can trust capitalism and the legal system. you definitely can't trust a random nerd who use to rant about eve.don't vote for me, vote for nobody!"
"i endorse this product and/or service"
"i endorse this product and/or service"
"i endorse this product and/or service."
"\"none of the above\" is the \"none of the above\" option. you may think that voting for gevlon will give an idea of how many players believe the csm should be written off, but in reality they will simply see it as more players voting.the thing is, i doubt the csm is going anywhere, since there are an awful lot of people that would see the removal of the csm as ccps refusal to engage with players and they would quit. and whether you like it or not, the csm does a lot of great things. it definitely needs more attention from ccp developers, but it certainly doesn't need to be removed.also, i don't think you've really thought through what voting just for gevlon (who won't be on the csm and so will be removed regardless of vote count) or voting for noone will actually do. i won't spoil it though, i'll let you work that one over."
"the csm is a focused customer group.just like the ones every gaming company has.ccp has switched the tables a bit by letting us have a bit influence on one of them.the csm has exactly the influence that j.random focused costumer group has with j.random company.or possibly a little bit more, but not really.voting serious and competent people to the csm allows us a players to actually have a say (even if it's a little bit) to where ccp is going.not voting or voting for idiots just for the heck of it is giving away the little impact we can have."
"i agree, and that's my goal, because i believe an player impact is bad for the game, as players want advantage for themselves against other players."
"pity, i though that a serious run for office might be something you could do as opposed to a 'if you don't vote then it is a vote for me ' paradox stand for election. take the chance that it might actually be something with a modicum of effectiveness and, if it turns out not to be, step down. many complain but few have the guts to actually walk away once they see how the laws and sausages are made.call the goon bluff and challenge them to put you at the top of their ballot. passive aggressive is a poor substitute for actual work.stand, dammit, stand.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"i approve this"
"it is known you spent hundreds of billions fighting goons. while it's possible that you'll change overnight, the risk of that happening is low enough (for a serious space ship game) to take it."
"i think you'd be surprised how many votes you'll get at a none of the above candidate."
"you seem to be unaware of why the csm was formed."
"so torn. what do fc?"
"what did he do?"
"right, so no one really should know me, memories were erased while i was away from the game for 6+ years.what i'm running on:beerjim beamwhiskeyand marijuanawhy am i running?because i want 1.4 quintilion isk, to basically buy up alliances and play puppet master.what i promise:1.2 trillion to those that vote for me, if i'm awarded an allotment.to tax everyone 1% bonus taxation.to give all aliances i buy up a thanatos, pheonix, and a basilisk.to not do anything that supports myself, such as asking ccp to fix their game.to seek out new life, and new civilizations, to boldly go where no one has gone before..... ya rightbe an uber mensch.declare concord outlaw.fight for representation of goons in all matters of csm, because they are just noobs.and lastly, give my corporation the benefit of the doubt.so don't listen to anyone else, just get high and drunk and shoot ****, and vote for me, as supreme ruler of the universe, or imperium of eve.i'll fight to get you all the money you deserve, call ken nun. es hablo espanolseriously, i don't speak spanish, but if you want someone to talk to, you can find me in game almost every day, until 4 eve time.don't listen to chumps."
"i agree x is up"
"essentially, this is ideal. let it be a f2p social beacon which can also be accessed by avatars from the other games.of course this involves caring, and currently ccp is caring about vr more than improving established projects. notice how they keep trying to kill dust as well, despite that community kicking and screaming and going as loudly as possible.well, whether vr busts or not they will eventually turn their eyes back to older projects. i guess at some point they will decide which child they don't love anymore. i'd like very much if they had the manpower to work on all of these projects but that doesn't seem to be reality."
"while we're at it can we remove fleet warp on the same principle as not wanting fleet jump? fleet warp is dumb & i am being completely serious."
"if you're going to do a lot of trading in eve then paying attention to upcoming changes is really important."
"ccp work on 4 principals...a: if its useful - give it aidsb: if its working - break itc: if its broken - leave itd: if its a rorqual - forget it"
"this really makes me chuckle.... a lot... what incentive can eve as a game offer new,upcoming players to make them want to stick around..don't **** over your player base.i would put it down to simply that,why would players play a game that they spend money and time on only to have it taken away from them..i had 13 accounts at one point,now i barely play one.greyscale=failfozzie=failisboxer changes = fail you train for months/years to get into a capital and have almost all the benefit taken awayalso yes high sec should be a safe place for these new players but it is not if your not scammed in a station your ganked on the undock..to be honest i would be more concerned about the vets in the game than the new players,they are what made eve what it is today and they are leaving due to the changes listed as 3 fails above.why would you want to play a game like this when you know your hard work is going to be swept out from under your feet??!!!my 2 cents."
"i first met xenuria a few years back at a fanfest this one time. i won't go in to that any further, but what i will say is that he has matured greatly in those few years, especially after [redacted].xenuria will have a top 3 spot on my ballot."
"does that mean you've given up on your \"grr goons\" and \"+10 standings should give you free ****\" campaign platforms?"
"i am mature enough to realize that there are far more important issues at hand than how standings affect vanity items. please don't throw me in with the grr goons crowd. they don't like me any more than most goons do. i don't agree with everything goons do but i am also not required to agree with everything goons do. i am an individual that is part of something larger.i will add that there comes a point in time when all the politics and social maneuvering needs to be put on hold for the betterment of the entire community. the csm needs reform, the circumstances demand nothing short of nonpartisan collaboration and cooperation. those of you who know me in person know that i can be serious when i need to be and this is one of those times. if the csm is not reformed, if intervention is not undertaken than we may not have a csm for much longer."
"bobmon is a legit massive basement nerd monkey....yeah. this means he has the time and resources to help make the game better (unlike how many csm's this year?). bobby has been everywhere from russian overlords to tswift 1989 awesome-ladyness (?). he has a grip on elements of the game us mere mortals can only dream we had the time to care about.he is also a pretty cool guy and stuff and things..in bobmon we trustbecause you can't go bobwrong, with bobmon bobmon for csm"
"vote wyld!!!!!!"
"i'll give you a clue - gevlon only ever talks about goons"
"*sigh*everyone is so cryptic in this game."
"corbexx changed political parties after being elected. this is a terrible thing to have happened, and he should have had serious consequences or something."
"who did he change it to?"
"he swapped from noho to goons.if it had been the other way round, gevlon might view it differently."
"likely true, hence i shouldn't be a real candidate. goons are players too and shouldn't be cheated out of their votes any more than wh-ers. lovely to see this from someone who never contributed to anything in his countless csm terms."
"corbexx was the wormholers csm candidate that they voted in to represent them. so he took their votes, took his seat then moved/defected to goons, basically taking his csm seat with him and giving the goons an additional csm member. this was seen as a betrayal by many. drame ensued and much pop corn was consumed."
"this makes so much sense now. that is why he was so defensive about the mittani and digi."
"i don't always agree with gevlon (actually i almost never agree with gevlon), but i truly believe that he is the csm candidate that we deserve & this man will have a high place on my ballot list. with gevlon on board we can finally work to end the real threat to eve online: the posting of lucas kell.now for a question: if elected, will you build a wall around lucas kell so we can make eve great again?"
"you're mad! getting rid of me would mean there's no way for everyone to relate. right now crying whenever i post unifies even the bitterest f enemies. without that there would be chaos."
"you are to late, dj yumene from eve-radio.com will get my 1st vote.you do understand that if everyone else boycott's the voting, the goons will vote and run the entire csm, if any.regards, a freelancerps: will throw you a sympathy vote gevlon source:"
"user input is never bad for any game, or any other product what so ever."
"as i said, we must trust the devs. they also solved this crucial problem, hence the forums are still working. you can left click his name, and a menu comes up, containing \"hide posts\". click it for averting the end of your sanity. and how would that be different from the current situation?"
"you are forgetting the following csm members:sugar kylemike azariahsteve ronunkenchance ravinnejayne fillonand not even gorski car is a goon (alt) as far as i know."
"they announced this and a shitstorm happened because :reasons:."
"how does that quote go?every complex problem has a solution that is clear, simple, and wrong?"
"greetings,my name is mr hyde, and i am pleased to announce my candidacy for csm xi.about mei have been playing eve since 2005 and for the better part of those 10 years. over this time i have dabbled in many aspects of the game, but have always had an underlying focus and passion for pvp. my corporation history has been long and varied, and i have flown with notable groups from infod in the ancient past, to rooks & kings, to black legion, and more recently joined pandemic legion. i have always maintained friendships with players from my long time in this game, regardless of corp/alliance or politics. although my main focus in the game for the past year or so has been solo pvp, i have had extensive pvp experience in many other forms of combat in everything from triage/logistics to dreads to subcaps.i produce solo pvp videos and streams for my youtube and twitch channels, which i try to make entertaining and educational. one of my favorite aspects of this is helping players (new and old) with solo/small gang pvp, whether that means chatting about strategy/tactics in my in-game channel, or helping players with fittings by evemail. i have found it to be a really rewarding experience, both in improving my own piloting, as well as connecting with the community.i have never considered running for csm before, but feel that the game is at important stage in its continued development. if ccp still sees value in consulting with a group like the csm, i would be honored to participate and lend my experience to the process.i believe my long experience in the game, gives me a unique perspective as a candidate, since i have seen the evolution of eve over my 10+ years playing and know what works and what doesn't.brief candidacy summaryi want to first and foremost serve as a consultant for ccp on the issues they wish to receive feedback on. i will not serve as a lobbyist for any group/alliance, and place the betterment of the game as my highest priority.although my personal opinions on balance & mechanics are varied, i always strive to balance sensibility and consistency. although balance is an active and ongoing process, we should try to make sure innovation does not lead to oppression. diversity and meaningful choices in the game are key.pvp needs to be accessible to new players but also needs to maintain the depth necessary to challenge veterans.ccp has a wonderful vision for the game, but oftentimes needs the help of the players in executing that vision.feedback and communication from and with the community, especially from active forums such as /r/eve, is paramount to a transparent and accountable csm.tl;dri am a long-time eve player, active solo-pvper and videomaker, and hope you will give me your consideration for csm xi.contactplease feel free to reach me with questions/suggestions/concerns in this thread, by eve-mail, or by twitter.csm watch interviewcsm campaign trailer by zaqq & fintarue thank you,-mr hyde"
"i don't want to make unrealistic promises like \"i'll change xyz or add abc\" if elected, so i provided you with some of my guiding principles in the op.if you have specific issues you would like to hear my thoughts on, please leave a reply in the thread below and i'll do my best to respond so you can get an idea of what kind of candidate i am."
"hyde has my official endorsement. he's a good man, with big dreams. he can make eve a better place.+111"
"+1 hyde is the best"
"cool"
"good luck mate"
"definitely hope you get in. i'm fairly certain it'd be a good thing."
"you were grr goons though, for a number of years and your platforms were based entirely around it. the only thing that's changed is you were finally allowed to join goons without being purged 5 minutes later.i don't disagree that the csm needs reform but simply stating the csm needs reform is in no way a reason to vote for you, if you could share some of your ideas on how you want to reform the csm then you might be taken a bit more seriously but at the moment you seem a bit flakey as a candidate."
"ok, i'll bite.reform in the context of the csm would entail overhauling the white paper, installing safety measures, changing the language used when discussing certain topics, advocating and pushing for policy changes that encourage honesty but discourage superficial posturing. i suppose the problem is that when i say reform i expect people to know what i mean without me having to list any number of things that are reformative.for me it's sometimes difficult for me to explain what i mean without a specific context. let me give you an example.q what are your reforms?a uhhh q how would you reform the csm nda?a i would construct a spanning tree rubric with dates and subject tags that allowed for everybody under nda to know explicitly what they are and are not allowed to discuss and with whom. on the subject of grr goons it's disingenuous to lump me in with that /r/eve grr goons crowd or any grr goons crowd. my primary grievance with goons had nothing to do with anything in a spaceship game and everything to do with my home address and personal information being posted in a csm thread by the mittani."
"ok, lets try a little game of lets be serious.the csm has had an up and down year, some members have done an amazing job (you know who you are) and some less so (likewise) what reforms do you envisage that would encourage the best of us to apply and give their all, without suffering discouragement, whilst eliminating the wasters and attention seekers and those who just want to ruin the game for the rest of us?answers on a postcard to.... well here would be a good start."
"you will be first on my ballot this year sir!...assuming ccp doesn't deep six the csm at the end of 10."
"i am running independently to be a member of csm 11.my platform: a better new player experience. how can we get players hooked right away without watering eve down? job options outside of the current missions so that new characters or players have better options for specialization. increased opportunities to interact with the npc pirate groups of eve. what if you could join serpentis, guristas, or soe? suggestions to ccp for marketing and pricing ideas. the health of the game as a whole is in our best interests. communicating the community's likes and concerns regarding citadels and capital rebalancing in a constructive way. continued creation or redesign of systems or complexes that encourage exploration and pvp like thera. more addictive and engaging pve experiences. i want to give meaningful feedback to groups like team astro sparkle. additional content for wormholes. finding ways to increase movement to systems currently unused in high-sec, low-sec, and null-sec. blueprint reform. we need a serious look at tech 2 blueprints and their legacy. i'll make sure that your voices are heard regardless of the outlet. i constantly browse the eve-o forums, reddit, fitting forums, and more. continued tweaks to balance the ship classes. i'm a fan of some of the more recent changes since the \"fall of the ishtar\". suggesting the addition of a minmatar/caldari skill-based pirate faction of ships. lastly i pledge to give some representation and support to the australian, japanese, eastern russian, us west, new zealand, oceania, philippines, hawaiian, and southeast asian timezones. eve is a global game and i'd love to work with players from these regions so that we have a good share of content.past affiliations: i have been a member of independent wormhole corporations, xxconfederation of xxpizzaxx, nulli secunda, and tribal band. i've had a lot of experience pvping in nullsec. while i have never been a member of one of the current nullsec coalitions - i look forward to hearing the opinions of these players. however i promise not to use my position to benefit any power blocs. you can expect very little \"drama\" from me on the csm.i look forward to any feedback in this thread or elsewhere. <U+308D><U+304F><U+304A><U+305F><U+307E>"
"reserved."
"literally who"
"yeah, a bit of an outsider in a quiet timezone. but i'll at least participate in csm."
"<U+304F><U+308A><U+306D>!!good lucka god among men"
"the pirate corp idea i've always liked."
"<U+306B><U+306F><U+306A><U+305F><U+306F><U+306E><U+30B2><U+30FC><U+30E0><U+308B><U+4F55><U+307E><U+305F><U+304B><U+FF1F>ahoy,what makes you stand out in this game?"
"vote wyld!"
"with so much brouhaha about the csm in general these days, it is my opinion that if the csm is going to persist, rather than just the focus groups for gathering feedback and ideas, why not nudge 'good' representation by having a set number of seats for each space type? it's easier to stuff the ballot by large groups that can cross communicate and game the system than it is for smaller candidates. looking at the votes from last year, there were a lot of candidates, but it seems like the votes were very spread among 'niche' candidates - no one candidate could get an entire block together of one play style. i am pretty sure i got a good deal of the people from syndicate to vote for me, but what about stain, pure blind, or fountain? basically, if we were guaranteed 1-2 candidates from each space type block, voter apathy wouldn't be so bad; there will be one/more candidate representing (your favourite interest group), so you need to vote for the one you like, rather than, there's no mathematical way for your interest group to get a seat due to vote monopolizing.a balanced csm would look like this to me, out of 12:3 sov null candidates2 high sec candidates1 high sec antagonist candidate2 npc and non fw low candidates2 wormhole candidates1 fw candidate1 npsi candidatewhen the votes are counted, only the top three running in the sov null are retained, i.e. even if #4 in the sov null category had 4000 votes and #1 in npc null had 300 votes, the npc candidate would get a seat.i would leave it to the discretion of ccp to ensure that a candidate that marks her or his campaign in one of those categories is legitimate. yes, its not perfect, its still open to manipulation, but it at least tries to make sure the only voices there aren't just the loudest.i would really be curious to see just how spread out all the votes were between the niche candidates in the last election. there were many, many good candidates last year, quite informed and good communicators who are very devoted and want eve to be at its very best, just....yeah. there's nothing left that hasn't been gamed in this game."
"hey, so i'm not gonna bore you to tears with a wall of platitudes and unattainable goals that sound good on paper. instead i'm just going to post a short summary of how i started, some views i have and then you're welcome to drill me on anything specific.i like eve. it's a pretty cool game, with a pretty cool community. i started playing in summer 2013 right as the fountain war was kicking off. i ran the trial for about 36hrs, decided this was worth my time, and subbed. 2 days later i'm like \"hey i bet there's a subreddit for this game, oh cool there is, oh a big war? what's this twitch stream? someone's declaring war? cool! oh they're invading the reddit alliance? sign me up!\". 2 days later, i'm flying a test free slasher in some big battle trying to work out why these \"tengus\" are going so fast when their stats page says they only go 10m/s.so i spent the whole fountain war flying test free frigates and t1 logi, but mainly just spending a lot of time soaking up knowledge about this game. if someone had something to explain, i had all the time in the world to listen. when they announced they were abandoning delve, i'd been playing for about 2 months and decided i want to try something else. i joined up with another corp right as they were leaving too for the same reasons, they went inactive a week later, and then i went to hs incursions, made some isk, and pretty much quit playing for like 3 months. that would have been it for me and you'd never have heard from me again were it not for one random thing.i read on reddit about test getting hell camped in curse somewhere. i was curious what that looked like, so i bought an imicus, fit a cloak to it, and made my way there. it was actually quite underwhelming, but i got talking to some dudes in local who'd joined emp. i got invited to join their corp, and that was that. i spent the halloween war flying on emp and pl fleets and got into using jfs to stock local markets to make isk. after emp collapsed, i joined up with my bros in tsk whom i've been with ever since. we then went and lived in npc fountain for 3 months as honorary core members, joined bl, spent a year and a half there during which i got a titan and a super, did a lot of cool stuff, ended up being a diplo and right towards the end reluctant leader after elo went properly afk, and now i'm in low sec with tishu.i don't really care about empire building, politics or mind games and i especially detest the peacful almost agrarian lifestyle that has become prevalent across much of the map. the \"meta\" only interests me in so far as it enables or inhibits my ability to shoot other spaceships.what does interest me is pvp, particularly fleet scale. i think every ship right from titans to ibis's are a tool with an appropriate time and place for their application. my idea of a good fight is one where you need to try something clever to win. whether that be refits, new ship comps, force multipliers, escalation, better positioning, clever target calling, judicious overheating, multiboxing, whatever. however i feel that patch after patch these factors matter less and less, and with that, the pvp meta is pushed further towards the n+1 singularity. that naturally then lends itself to a situation where fights are more effectively decided on a jabber client than an eve client. however much fun shitposting on reddit is, a battle report will always be more interesting than a chat log.in regards to game mechanics, i feel that the phoebe jump changes were a good idea but massively overdone. i think that aegis sov is almost all bad with very little in the way of redeeming qualities and that dominion sov with some significant changes would have landed us in a much better position, and i feel that citadels while they look super cool, in practice, will provide almost zero compelling gameplay. you can read more about my views on those topics here and here.i don't think there's any possible way ccp can break up large coalitions like the cfc and the drf, and i definitely don't think they can make people less risk averse, however i feel there's a lot they could do to make that matter less.my ideal vision for eve is one where people fight each other more. do i think that simply getting by getting on the csm i can make that happen? no. but i think i'd be remiss not to give it a shot.edit: here's a q/a from my reddit ama that i think sums up why i want to run for csm:what do you think is the best role for the csm to have?"
"coming to a csm near youtishu autismxenuriagevlon goblinthe csm of my dreams +1"
"you've got my vote.+1"
"i'm with dog."
"i'm with dog & b0ck"
"i laughed :3 but on a serious note, i wish you the best of luck! my experience and knowledge of you has only ever been positive, and i'm sure you'll make a great csm."
"how much did you get paid to kill black legion?"
"this will be a +1 from me."
"120 split 3 ways. baki, capri and me.thanks gorga, thans sort"
"some of you might remember me from last year, most probably don't care; i care, i care a lot. that's why i want to join the csm, because i care about the game and want to squeeze as much entertainment and life as possible out of it, regardless of how badly ccp wants to kill all the fun. for those who do not know me, i'm a seven year bittervet of eve online. in my time, i've done a little bit of everything, sovnull, wh's, highec living, fw, ect. you name it, i've probably at least tried it. i think this gives me good insight into what the less space-famous pilots think of the game and want from eve. here is a link to my thread last year if you want to give it a once over, but i'll be covering all the relevant changes to my platform here.nullsecmoar structures! oh wait, ccp is doing that! well in that case, not **** structures. i want these new structures to be as awesome as ccp has made them sound. moar station*!*wrecks they did this too. 2/2 ccp. we think so alike.remove keblob! they, uh... sort of did that too. i'll give it a 2.5/3 since balancing small gang vs. blobfleet tactics is difficult.buff blops! this is the one thing that has not changed. blops still only get a 50% reduction in jump fatigue, which coupled with their lowered range, still leaves them a pale shadow of their dark and scary shadow selves. while blops pilots have adjusted to pheobe mechanics, i still want to find a better medium between pre-pheobe freedom blops enjoyed, and the current hobbled state. i'd consider this my primary issue this year. wormholesmore newbies! i still think this is an issue. low end wh's need to be played up in advertising, and the new player experience. more movement! i think this has even gotten worse in the past year, especially in high end wh's. renters are rampant and the current power blocs resemble pre fozzie-sov null entities more than the nomadic groups of the past. the addition of citadels will certainly shake up how wh wars are fought, but destabilizing the renting empires needs to be looked at more seriously.industrypi rework! still so much clicking. seriously, even just letting us \"save\" pi setups and copy paste them from planet to planet would be amazing. blueprints! still eve:offline mining even worse than eve:offline, because you actually have to sit there and watch it. highsechighsec is still pretty balanced. wardec mechanics could use some looking at to push more pvp and less station humping. ship balancefaction dreads! i still want these. we're getting cap neuts with the cap re-balance too!the capital re-balance is coming, and the months after it are going to require a lot of feedback from players. i am really excited for the changes, and support anything that makes supers kill-able, and dreads/carriers more usable. before i wrap this up, lets talk about the elephant in the room. csm x. csm x has had some hiccups this year, resignations, afg's... i would like to reassure everybody that i intend to be active, and vocal if elected to the csm, and if for some reason i am unable to do so (which is really, really unlikely unless i drop dead), i will hand in a timely resignation so that other more active people can continue to provide player feedback to ccp. in closing, as i said last year, eve mail me. tell me what you want, because that's the most important part of the csm. having a large stream of input from other players to present to ccp."
"lol, interesting idea. keep in mind though, ccp can defang it somewhat (at least for the fence sitters or the general ignoramus) through bribes like unique collectibles or whatever.they did that starting from csm9-10ish, iirc (sorry, cba to dig up links), there isn't any reason not to continue. a simple but effective age old tactic.bottomline, there's probably a cost/return threshold somewhere for ccp to maintain the csm structure as eve moves along in maintenance mode. the initial csm works were decent during its earlier years (peaking around mynxee time, imo) but as time moved on, the whole platform turned into a lobby group, similar to certain countries' political model. nothing to admire there, same old thing rules. btw, regardless of nda, leaks will continue to happen - through convenient errors/accidents, covertly, unoficially or through oral whispers. that's a given.the csm needs a systemic overhaul.edit: response to the question whether goons will control the entire csm where no one votes, it doesn't matter.break the system. let the whole csm xi be full of goons."
"@freelancer117:sugar kyle is leaving and not with much happiness. she tried hard and failed.mike azariah is doing absolutely nothing. he runs with \"highsec candidate\" theme and uninformed miners give him their vote for nothing.steve ronunken is mostly on "
"proving once again you have no idea what you are talking about."
"submit valid candidacy that isn't going to waste the time of those running for election to the csm or players who want to contribute to the development of eve online via the csm, and you'll be considered as a valid candidate.you won't be considered a valid candidate under the manifesto of running purely to boycott the election.ccp falcon || eve universe community manager || @ccp_falcon"
"title says it all. i would like to put gevlon goblin back on the ballot.a vote for gevlon goblin would be a vote against the sytem. i am interested in how many of the playerbase share his feelings and agree with his platform.not allowing the players to be able to vote for a change in the system is excessivly stifling.a non vote does not have the same effect as a vote against the system. non votes are written off as people not interested in the game enought to vote. where as a vote against the system activly shows that the protesters are acctually invested and passionate about the game.if ccp truly wanted the all opinions of its playerbase theyd put gevlon goblin back on the ballot, and take into consideration how much support his platform gets. taking him off the ballot only shows that in order to be heard by ccp you have to aggree with them."
"it would be infinitely more effective to request a \"none of the above\" option."
"lol if you think csm is a position of responsibility"
"well, of course not, but you have to make the rubberstamp committee feel good and meaningful, right? it's the christian thing to do"
"this thread has been moved to player issues and workaround."
"a candidate i actually want to vote for. refreshing.+1"
"+1. hyde has always had an very interesting perspective of the game and would make a good addition to a council.rest in peace frigates and ecm"
"+1 how do i vote?"
"what is your opinion on the popular f r i g a t e conspiracy surrounding ccp?"
"yes"
"+2 for hyde."
"+1 and suddenly i feel inclined to actually cast a csm ballot."
"+1 as long as you standby your ecm hate!"
"yessir"
"1 vote = 1 bring back skynet"
"vote confirmed."
"ayyyou have the support of ihst!edit:for the battleships!"
"please be more specific about your platform. it sounds to me like what you are saying is \"balance for balance's sake must be maintained\". do you want to change the small ship meta, as evidenced by your stated dislike of frigates? you are regularly seen flying larger ships; do you want to buff these? how so? you say also pvp should be accessible to new players; how do you intend to accomplish that?"
"yay. best news in a long time. you have my vote."
"+1 be nice to ecm."
"i don't need to see a platform, more a reaction to how you will deal with specific issues. so if they decided to spend time on assault frigates to bring them up to survivable again what stand would you take?mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"(1) in general, i think that finding a healthy state of balance, is always a moving target, and more of a goal to strive for, but never something we ever fully achieve.(2) i think that the small ship meta, especially in small gang pvp, is evidence that people do not have good/enough reasons to want to fly bigger ships. some of this has to do with the speed; people don't like spending so much longer in warp/warping compared to smaller ships. some of this has to do with them not bringing enough to the table for the added cost/tedium. there are a few ideas i have kicking around in my head such as a \"secondary-stat\" buff for bs (scan res, sensor strength, cargo capacity) which are basically quality of life improvements. but balance is not done in a vacuum, and restoring a healthy \"food pyramid\" of ships would go a long way to giving bs more reasons to be used. thus why i spend a lot of time flying, and encouraging others to fly bcs and bs, so people see what they can do, so that they get used more, and then have more similar sized targets out there (rinse repeat).(3) right now the game does not do a good job of explaining how actual pvp works in the tutorials/npe. we rely heavily on a player joining the right \"newbro\" corp that will teach them what they need to know. there are plenty of resources out there these days for new players, but it all relies on them finding these external sources. i want to see a lot of the wisdom out there put in front of new players right off the bat so we can retain as many as possible. examples? including basic pvp fittings in the \"corp fittings\" of the starter npc corps so they have something to work off of. making starter/lvl 1 missions more like burner missions/actual pvp; less farming and more intense 1v1 scenarios that force new players to learn mechanics."
"electing a youtuber? talk about wasting a vote."
"yes! x100"
"very good and thoughtful answers...... particularly the nonsense that is bigger ships having less electronic capability...... although i will continue following your campaign, i think there's a good chance youll get my vote."
"sorry man, but no you would make an ill csm. you are too quick to anger and i fear would only attempt to serve your own narrow interests.-1"
"i also suddenly feel the same inclination. the mind games in this thread are scary.mr hyde113, a mild-mannered pvper, who may or may not turn into superman. +1regards,cypr3ss."
"understandable, and expected since that is the way for you to get a sense of where my head is on the issues. however, i have to say that the csm in many ways isn't about ccp saying, \"hey guys, this needs fixing, fix it\", but rather \"we were thinking this, what do you think\".i think that t3ds really put afs in a terrible place, since before their introduction, afs were pretty cost effective for what they did. many would like to just see buffs to afs, but i don't think letting the power creep train run in terms of increasing dps/tank stats is the way to go. you see this similar dynamic between hacs (except the ishtar, but that has been fixed mostly) and t3 cruisers. the introduction of t3s really made hacs not as viable by comparison, but not bad before.a big part of the solution will be toning t3ds down (to more of the hecate's level of power), among other nerfs, which i believe ccp is working on with a focus group. apart from that, we've seen a lot of willingness from ccp in coming up with unique roles and role bonuses: intys are interdiction immune, bcs got projection bonuses. right now afs have: 50% reduction in mwd sig radius penalty, which honestly isnt that great. perhaps replacing this with an ewar resistance bonus (something ccp has mentioned is possible soon), could be cool since it would let afs be good against all the new navy ewar frigs and eafs. still highly dependent on how much t3ds get nerfed though."
"as another long time player i fully support this. you have a good head on your shoulders.+1"
"i think the evidence speaks for itself.also, memes melt steel beams."
"+24 votes"
"i approve this message. end the f r i g a t e menace!let it be known, ships larger than destroyers exist."
"a wonderful guy and an easy vote. i have no doubt he would do wonders for the player base on the csm. he already inspires tons of people to get into the game and stay for the long haul. +1"
"hyde 2016"
"what is your plan for making thera great again?how will you combat the hordes of illegal volta pouring into paleo by the day?will we ever see you fit a nanofiber again?"
"well done and well said. yoou show the maturity to accept the external conditions, the wisdom to avoid power creep.you have a slot on my ballot unless you step on your . . .tongue between now and the electionmmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"hyde 2016 make solo great again"
"this might ectually be the first time ever i'll be voting for someone. very cool seeing you apply for csm. since we share alot of experience pvp wise i'll gladly help out or discuss certain aspects of the game! i want to see the game healthy again pvp wise l.good luck on the campaign!"
"frigates are ruling the skies. ecm is making the ragequit as common as salt. the force is broken into pieces.... only you can make it whole again. please bring balance to the force!"
"anyone that starts with purpose/principles gets my vote... +1"
"you hope for t3d nerfs. many of us do, but besides warp/lock times, battleships seem pretty limited in roles relative to other ship classes.frigates and cruisers have their own flavors of logi and ewar. battleships have no bonused logi boats and only caldari/amarr have ewar platforms. while i'm dubious about target painting or sensor damp bonuses, taking after secondary ewar could make some interesting ships - point range for gallente, web range for minmatar.while i'm not one to pine for battleship sized logistics (hello nestor, i didn't forget you), i just want to put it out for discussion. i see plenty of people flying command destroyers for the mjfg capabilities, but battleships don't really have something to call their own. at the heart of the matter, battleships do nothing special, and they do it slowly.so, what are some options for making bs special?"
"1.0"
"hey hyde, hope your new home under the paymasters of pl is treating you well. interesting choice of new corp though bud, are we trying to secure more votes having recently joined / been asked to join pandemic legion? although i may not agree with your new choice of corporation (even though its of no benefit having you in anybody's corp), i will be fully supporting your application to the csm, as having flown with you a few times in mind games, i think you have a good amount to offer and hope that you will remain non-bias in your decisions and direction in the future.+1also, yes i think ccp may all be frigates......"
"you have my vote."
"there are a lot of different ways to go about this, but i really prefer an approach that does not add to the power creep we have seen over the years. bs will be more popular when there is a \"healthy food pyramid\" of bcs and cruisers below them. this is why i try to feature larger ships in my videos, since they are not popular and therefore no one flies them, and leads to this downward spiral.as far as changes, on the conservative side i'd like to see a secondary stat buff on most bs (scan res, sensor strength, cargo capacity, ect). these small quality of life changes will help make flying bs feel a little bit better than it does right now.if you want to talk more crazy, theoretical ideas...giving bs generalized weapons bonuses was an idea i was toying around with. essentially instead of having <5% to large projectile turret damage, you could have , <5% to projectile turret damage>. we already see these kinds of bonuses on the bhargest and rattlesnake with missiles for example. this allow more flexibility in fitting for fighting smaller targets, leaving more fitting for tank/smartbombs/neuts. its a really wild idea that i was thinking of, so take it with a serious grain of salt, but there is a lot of room for creativity here."
"i will be voting for hyde for sure."
"i endorse this product/service."
"you have my vote"
"1.0"
"love your videos and your commitment to large ship brawling. i hope you can bring back more diversity to the battlefield with more solo bc/bs fun. +1"
"why do you feel the need to \"bite\" are you once again labeling me a troll simply because i don't swallow your entire campaign without questions and criticism?also assuming everyone will immediately know what you mean when you say things is poor form, sadly nobody has mind reading trained to v so we need to have things explained to us and reforming the csm is something that can happen any number of ways so it's not at all assumed prior knowledge.i'm looking for specific information on how you plan to overhaul the csm based on your understanding of how the csm works, you seem to be assuming that everyone can guess your plan and are instead relying on pretty vague statements. you said it's difficult for you to explain yet you're running your entire campaign on it, a csm member needs to be articulate and specific and so far you've shown neither."
"given that, how can you continue to play in an alliance that includes induviduals such as digi? or is doxxing only bad when it happens to you?"
"i do not see my presence in the alliance as an endorsement of what some members of the alliance say or do.if and when somebody does something that i personally feel is inappropriate or messed up i let it be known. do to how i am, i don't believe in showing favor to anybody because of rank, social status, influence etc. if a director in the imperium did something really messed up or creepy i would put them on blast. i feel it's not only possible for people who don't agree on everything to work together, i believe it's essential to the survival of this game.i think vigilance and oversight are the hallmarks of a good participation system. obviously there are some aspects of how participation is measured that i am not privy to, that said i have some ideas.when i work on anything as a behavioral consultant or even in security work, i always like to document the time i spend and what i spend it doing. punch in - punch out, is simply not sufficient for something like this so i would concoct a to-doo system that allowed members of the csm to claim or assign themselves to tasks they felt themselves best suited to. id est: ccp has a bunch of gameplay changes/proposals that need to be looked over half are wormholes and the other half have to do with pve in hs. member a of the csm can say \"i got the wormhole stuff unless anybody else want's it or wishes to collaborate with me on it.\" member e says \"i am not that well versed in wh stuff but i know alot about how hs mission runners think, i'll take that part\". with a system like this is becomes painfully obvious via data and trends who is just not doing anything.you seem like you want to ask a question. unfortunately i am unable to find one other than why i should feel the need to respond to you. honestly, based on your previous history of posting in my threads; i don't."
"just cause, you have my vote! failscade 2016"
"what are the current issues with wormholes?"
"have to support a fellow bob. +1"
"borat:your thoughts on \"alts\" is interesting, and i understand where you're going with it. however, what about those players who have no \"alts.\"insofar as i can tell, the definition of an \"alt\" would be a character (alt) that works hand-in-glove with another character (main) to give the main advantages. i can see your arguments here.however, what about those of us who play separately. i, for example, have no \"alts\" as far as i'm concerned. i have 3 characters who have independent lives and operate independently far from one another. why should, say, the activities of character 1 in, say, goonswarm, harm the chances of another character being accepted into a corp because the first character is seen as at least a potential spy?i also currently know of circumstances where is is legally forbidden for people to know that certain characters are linked via the same player, although if a change is made to the eula, i'd have to think that could be dealt with.you do have some interesting ideas, but i'm not quite sure i like this one.good luck!-- alan mathison, explorer & industrialist, star tide industries"
"i see alts from the same account the same as alts from different accounts. like you do point out though, they are less likely to help directly as you can't fly both at the same time, but they are still able to bear influences without much risks.by being part of the same \"stable\" or \"family\", by having alts publicly linked together with a simple eula change, you will have to be mindful of your actions, which in turn will define your true loyalties. your \"family\" can bear the consequences of the choices you make in game, whereas right now, you can create an alt (even from the same account) that is totally disconnected, and make a decision that will \"sacrifice\" an alt but has absolutely no bearings on your other alts.let's take the example of an hypothetical (or is it?) president mc scrooge, a titan pilot. let say this player has used his titan and lost it stupidly, then sold his character. the player did the mistake, and the titan pilot still ended up in the character bazaar, then used by someone else, possibly unaware of the consequences of such a bad killboard rep. with my platform, this player would not have been able to get rid of the stain of losing a titan. losing a titan is part of his history, but he avoids the consequences of his mistakes by using the anonymous alts system. as i am pointing out, anonymous alts do not fit the risk versus reward that is the staple of eve online. this is but one minor example. those that have the means to pay multiple accounts carry a hidden influence that is disproportionate in the game, and linking alts publicly will only curtail it and force players to be responsible for their actions and their choices. if you chose to join goons with one character, why would you then be able to join another organization that is actively trying to fight goons influence and curtails it, if not for spying and when the right moment come be in the position to reduce all significant efforts deployed to nothing? this is not difficult to do, and there is no risks involved. if your spying alt is caught, you as a player do not suffer any consequences nor ill-will. you are shielded by your anonymous alt, and just start or buy another one.this game is as much a science fiction experience than a social one. except that anonymous alts provide more advantage to the already established power groups to maintain their grasp on the game without much risks.now turning a player, like goons did with corbexx after he ran as a wh independent, is the stuff of true legends. corbexx being a public figure will live with that forever. a player that decides to burn a spy alt during a critical battle has no chops, unlike corbexx, as he is not putting any risks on his true assets.like isboxing, anonymous alts is a system that could be accepted before, but needs to be looked at again, which is why i am bringing it up as part of my guerilla platform, because foremost, it stifles true attempts to upset the current politics.there would be exceptions to the eula like isds or devs being able to bypass it, as there are internal controls already for them."
"i really like joffy, and he's really nice when hanging around #broadcast4reps so \o/, vote joffy!"
"<U+304A><U+306F><U+307E>what probably makes me stand out is that i am not dependent on any large coalition. i've done a little bit of everything. so i'm not going to be specifically representing any group. i don't think that sitting around waiting for pings is that fun.i've been a part of blocs and participated in a lot of epic tidi fights in the fountain war and halloween war. i was influenced by pizza, who only half-heartedly wanted a sov empire (they were always more interested in chaos and dunking). i think those that seek no-risk in this game aren't experiencing it to its fullest.i'm not a youtuber or streamer."
"here's a ~thing~ i wrote on power creep in eve online:"
"vic jefferson, the hero we deserve!"
"you wall of texted your points out of order. despite this you have my vote."
"+1 capri is a good man and he completely represents my eve."
"i like you.+1"
"realtalk though capri is probably the least autistic person in tishu and would probably not even promote game ideas that his alliance m8s suggest (assuming this alliance doesn't disband by the time next csm starts).why will i be voting for capri anyway?capri represents a strong, independent voice in the eve online spacefrend community and will not be cucked by any power bloc in eve. a vote for capri is a vote for freedom."
"i vote you ok. you best man. love from bos <3"
"capri is good people."
"i'll vote for you fam"
"i had the good fortune to meet capri just after he started playing. he was an enthusiastic and intelligent scout who brought a lot more to our fleets than his character age might have suggested.i ended up opposed to him this summer where he was an excellent leader of black legion, which sadly closed although not due to any fault on capri's part.a spaceship game needs stellar candidates and this is a player with a very good grasp of both null sec and low sec.i wish him luck."
"guy knows some stuff. more then me so i will vote for him. but then again i sux."
"he may one of the more annoying voices in this entire game but this guy truley knows his **** +1 would make a great csm candidate."
"1.0"
"yo how often do you do high sec incursions tho"
"capri is a good euro, god knows those are hard enough to find some days. +1"
"sc000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000p +1"
"capri 2016, make null suck less again"
"you gave me a good fit on solace, you got my vote+1"
"capri knows his **** +1"
"gevlon goblin was removed from the process. sorry to crush your dreams."
"+1 would make an awesome csmdude puts more work into understanding this game and its mechanics than anyone i've met in a long time. if he doesn't know the answer to something he will put in the work to find out for himself"
"hello!i am announcing my candidacy for csm xi.who are you, anyway?great question! i am puddsy, god-king of jumping freight, lord of the deep space transports, and otherwise expert in all things hauling and logistics related. i have extensive knowledge of all things hauler related, and i am devoted to keeping highsec hauling corps honest through the use of test contracts. i started playing eve a little over a year ago now, in 2014, following the release of the this is eve trailer. i have been doing my best to learn as much as possible about this game's players, as well as the content they've created.i have been a member of pfr since my second day in eve, and i enjoy the nullsec lifestyle.what is your platform?i would like to serve as a voice to ccp for players who traditionally have less of one. new players and highsec carebears. everyone has their own opinion about them, but i think that they are an integral part of the game who deserve to have a voice. i appreciate the work that ccp has done on the new player experience in past years, but i think there are places where it lapses slightly. i've had many friends quit because they missed a rule, or they were unsure of what they wanted to do in eve. i can single out certain players in my mind who helped me get into the game initially, and i'd love for ccp to implement some sort of volunteer mentor program for new players. mentors would be pre-screened members of the established eve community who would dedicate a certain amount of time to making sure new players were getting on alright. i also hold a deep curiosity towards capital ships. after hearing that pl had dropped \"the blob, puddsy, it's like the elevator in the shining, but with supers instead of blood\" on red's bashing fleet, i knew that i had to go see what they were doing. i flew my shiny new merlin a few jumps to pl's home system (hlw-hp, at the time), and demanded that i be shown a titan. after my merlin was blown up by a pos, they were more apt to tell me where they were hiding. i would like every player to feel the same exhilaration i felt in those 5 minutes. i would like to look at the state of logistics in all corners of new eden, and adjust things accordingly. i would like to bring the hauling ships into a better state of balance (some are obviously better than others, others worse), and i would like to see the contract system brought into a much better, more functional state, especially for courier contracts. i spend a majority of my social time in eve in the haulers channel, where complaints in this area are frequently voiced and solutions are theorized.i'd also like to see what could be done to positively enforce \"broadcast for reps\" type posts. i suffer from major depressive disorder. i think it's important for people to talk about their mental illnesses, as well as find help. both in and out of new eden. i have not yet fleshed out any realistically doable ideas, but i'm working to come up with something soon. above all, i would like to help ccp better eve online both as a game and as an experience. eve and it's players have been an important part of my last year, and i'd love for them to be a part for many years to come.~if you're interested in getting in touch with me, i read every mail i get, and i do my best to respond to all of them. you can also tweet me @puddsypuffs. be warned i'm less active on twitter than most, as i don't really like it. i'll probably still respond there. you can also reach me on reddit, at /u/puddsyi'd love to hear anything you have to say, questions, concerns, how your day is going, all of it."
"reserved"
"oh god why"
"it seems fun, and i haven't got enough to do. i'm making more for myself to do by trying to make eve a better place."
"what do you think about the current wardec system?"
"puddsy is a nerd"
"good question.i like that a system like that exists. i think that it's an important part of the game. i don't like the current implementation of it.i especially don't like that players (namely highsec carebeards) see getting wardecced as a \"lockdown\" or a \"one month **** you\" from another corp. i think that that is problematic, but the ideas for solving this in my notes only lead to a total removal and redesign of the wardec system. no player should log in, go \"oh i'm wardecced, i guess im not playing today.\" it's a game, it's meant to be played as often as one wants to play it.i don't like that highsec wardec corps are deccing nullsec, wh, and lowsec corps/alliances specifically to farm kills. i think that goes against the spirit of a \"war.\" sure, sometimes people will come to highsec with the intent of killing highsec wardeccers, but that's not enough of a consequence. pfr has been wardecced for several months now, and has only ever done one of those fleets twice. wingspan alliance, which has been decced since its inception, has never done one of these fleets as far as i know. i think a total rework would be far too much to ask of ccp, but i also think that it's the only way to truly \"fix\" the wardec system. a small change would likely affect another area of the system that would make life harder for another group of players. wardecs are one of very few things that affect every group in eve, no matter where they live. changes to the system should not be taken lightly.i hope that's a satisfactory answer for you."
"on a slightly different topic, what is your opinion on the bounty and crimewatch systems?"
"i think the bounty system accomplishes nothing other than a competition to see who can have the largest one. if i kill someone with a 1 billion isk bounty, i expect 1 billion isk. it's not an intuitive system right now. i think it would be fun if it were changed into a type of contract.i had a whole idea typed out in my notes, but i just re-read it and it described kill rights. kill rights are worthless on people who are already -10 security status, or who never leave lowsec.either way, i think bounties and kill rights need a change. i don't think bounties accomplish anything at all right now, and i think kill rights should be worth putting on players with low sec status. i'm not sure of new implementations for either of these things, but they're not working right now, and should be examined.~i think the crimewatch system is largely fine as it is. i think it needs a little work in some areas, though.why don't i get a suspect flag when i enter a plex in fw? if i'm in there, i'm probably going to get into a fight/get caught in my stabbed ship and die. why should i lose sec status for fighting in a designated area? (i think ccp announced that they're doing this, so that's good)that's about it, though. i haven't spent enough time thinking about it or examining it to really have a solid opinion about it.if you have any ideas, feel free to send me a mail."
"vote pudsy!so train the skills!"
"nashh, i've heard your name quite a bit and it's always been positive. i am wondering if you could clarify your position on bans, and whether you'd support this proposal i put to csmx."
"hey blackhuey,great topic you wrote there, well thought out and well worded.the truth is, i do not believe the csm's job should be to be involved with these type of decisions, i my opinion the csm is there to feedback the communities concerns to ccp to help them make an informed, fair decision on the processes.one of the problems you state here is a problem suffered throughout various things both ccp and the csm are involved with; clarity and fairness. whatever the csm or ccp do should not always be transparent, as this would require everything to be visible and this simply is not realistic or possible. what is important though is clarity; a clear process that everyone can understand based on fairness.if anything the csm should take proposals like this and put it to ccp providing there is enough support from the rest of the community. if there is a concern voiced by the community this should be raised by the csm, your proposal is a good example.i am not sure i answered what you wanted to hear but if you would like to talk about it more please feel free to ask here.kind regards,nashh#eve_nt website; www.eve-nt.uk blog;"
"hello there guys. first and for most . im no one. not some high caliber fc, not lead diplomat for a major alliance. just a fellow eve player like each and almost every single one of you. no hidden political agenda and not trying to line my pockets before anyone else gets a chance too. i would like to bid on a spot for csm xi and use my knowledge of the game and knowledge of supply side economics as well as my opinions of how to help new eden grow and expand in the coming year. first, i a quick overlook of my game history. i have played eve online since 2009. i started off mining like most new players and stared a corp with other several day old toons trying to get some where. i eventually found my way into the world of mission runners and incursions from there and made some decent isk but got stale of the repetition of the same thing every other mission, i have lived in wh space even and enjoyed that challenge immensely. now i presently reside in null sec and enjoy it but would like to see the escape of null sec shaken up a bit more then how the sand castles are being shaken up. ive also done industries in almost all aspects, except for drug production cause well.....um legal reasons >.>......(side note im rather active on reddit fyi =)what i feel like i could bring to the csm* a level head, that is biased because of political ideals or position of related eve power.* i have a large understanding of grand schemes and implementation of complicated ideas.* a fantastic ability to diffuse and mediate arising conflicts of social nature as well as convey points and meaning to all parties invovled.* a willingness to accept cristiism and mistakes that are either put onto me or made myself. what id like to see and communicate with ccp about. (null-sec and industry focus)* bringing a new landscape to the new eden out regions in an attempt to escalate and drive conflict and drive pilots further from the ever fruitful jita.* continue to push ccp about bringing more ships into the game and present counters to ships specifically, vs swinging the nerf bat so easily.* push for larger industry operation capacities as the ceiling for a lot is starting to get reached and its getting crowded at the top. allow for continued growth especially towards older players who feel like that have reached there limit in a lot of ways.there are a lot of things that i too would like to touch up on but i can not do that and keep this short and sweet. please if you have any questions feel free to message me on forums, send me an ingame mail or anything else that you would like to call me out on. do it. i want to prove that i will be good at this and that you will not regret choosing me as a csm representative. thank you all and fly safe."
"o7 capsuleersi'm running for csm xi. unlike most campaigns you will see here, i'm going to do this a different way. i will post my areas of focus and then let you guys ask me questions. i will answer your questions the best i can. ah, i will troll you back too! :)areas of focus null security space high security space mining & industry low security space marketing disabled player accessibility so, i've lived in high security space, null security space, and low security space. i've been part of brave newbies and spacemonkey's alliance. i have experience losing lots of ships and i've enjoyed it. i've been playing eve nearly two years now and i think i've learned a lot. i've not nearly enough to be considered an expert, but i will serve you in any way i can.o7[start ama......."
"so, about null security space:- how do you feel about the sov system that was introduced with aegis?- what is your opinion on megacoalitions?- what do you think about the risk/reward of nullsec?edit: first?"
"1. how do you feel about the sov system that was introduced in aegis?2. what is your opinion on megacoalitions?3: what do you think about the risk/reward of nullsec?"
"what are your thoughts on the new citadels?"
"a few specific topics i'm interested in working on:eve<U+FFFD>s user interface (ui)the ui has come a long way since i<U+FFFD>ve started playing eve, and a lot farther from images i<U+FFFD>ve seen from the early years. just in the last few months ccp has released a new ui skinning option where you can choose the color scheme of the ui. in my option, making things <U+FFFD>look cool<U+FFFD> shouldn<U+FFFD>t be one of the top priorities.ui text size: i believe that ccp should change the text size in this menu as many people rely on it when traveling around in the cluster. if ccp doesn<U+FFFD>t want to force a text size change on everyone, then give those who would like to increase the text size the option to do it. in extension of giving the ability to change text sizes, i think this option should be developed and inserted into all aspects of the ui.ui transparency: for people with visual disabilities having the chat, overview and other ui tools transparent can be troublesome. in the past, you could unpin or pin an item to make it non transparent. from what i can tell, that option doesn<U+FFFD>t work with the new ui skinning.new player experiencea lot of people know what it is to be a new player in eve online. we were all newbro<U+FFFD>s at one time or another. when i talk about the new player experience, i<U+FFFD>m not just talking about the first 24 to 48 hours of their time in new eden, but farther past that. thankfully, we have newbro friendly corporations like eve university, brave newbies inc. pandemic horde, and so on. (please don<U+FFFD>t be offended if i didn<U+FFFD>t list your newbro corp.) some things that i would like to see change for our newbros are:making isk as a newbro: i would love to see more ways for newbro pilots to make isk in their very early days in new eden. whether it is missioning, mining or even market pvp i think the new <U+FFFD>opportunities<U+FFFD> system needs to be expanded upon.rookie help chat: when i created my character a year ago, you were automatically put into a rookie chat that was there to help you in your first 30 days in new eden. in my opinion, that<U+FFFD>s a short amount of time to think of all the question you may have and ask them. i think this could be extended from 30 days to 60 or 90 days.finding a corporation: i believe that it is important to get our newbro<U+FFFD>s into a corporation that can help them learn and grow in new eden. joining a new corporation can be intimidating as a new player and in my experience, it<U+FFFD>s hard to know which corporation to choose. besides the corporate ads listed in the corporation window, there should be a section of the opportunities that shows the new player which corporation are best for them. there is a section about joining a corporation, but it<U+FFFD>s not very comprehensive.disabled player experiencei<U+FFFD>ve already mentioned a few things in the ui section that can be attributed or put in this section. i believe that ccp should be doing more to make sure anyone who is interested can play eve, and play it as well as possible. therefore, i am going to be a voice and an ear for the disabled players in new eden. i am only legally blind, so from my stance i have several issues with the game<U+FFFD>s ui. however, there numerous other players with various disabilities who we need to reach out and see if they need assistance."
"citadels will be awesome!i am really looking forward to working on citadels. citadels are a new generation of structures that i think will make this game that much better and fun to play. i am impressed with ccp' for giving us what we will need to build them. we know what kind of minerals, pi, and other materials we need and that let's up prepare!in short, citadels will change the way we play eve."
"hello, delicious friends. you may have no ******* idea who i am, which isn't surprising, because i'm basically nobody. now, your second question is, why is this nerd running for csm? well, let me tell you exactly why. over the years, i've spent time in many facets of eve. i spent time in highsec doing diddly squat in a small corp, i spent time in lowsec with brave newbies, i did incursions until i wanted to swandive into a woodchipper. with them i took my first steps into null, and then i saw their glorious nosedive into a burning dumpster. i jumped ship and joined test, which is only a very minor improvement now that you think about it. i've also spent some time in wormholes, so i basically know enough to say i'm ******* clueless. now, this isn't exactly the most glowing recommendation. however, it is a testament to how honest i will be with you. there're a few reasons i'm running for csm. first off, to try to reduce some of the jank and general weirdness that makes life hard for the little guy. second, it's an open secret that many running for csm have their own selfish agendas, i'm at least open enough to say that i'm running to support my own shellfish agenda. no longer will the krabs of new eden have to scurry under the rocks of the big established blocs, i am here today to stand at the forefront of a united front.i believe in the invisible hand of the free market and how it can improve life in new eden. however, there is one part of the game where it has not been attempted. indeed, i intend to run for csm as the first csm for sale. no longer will pl, goons or rusrus be the only ones pushing for theier agenda. for a reasonable price, so can you. i'm also offering early bird specials.a vote for me is a vote for change. it's a vote for good. it's a vote for ordinary joe who just wants to see the game be better."
"so are you saying that ccp has in the past taken one item in the game and changed it to another already existing item in the game?could you please tell when they did this and which items.\" ccp does not set the price of the modules\"i did not say that ccp sets the price. please read my post again.ccp change an item in the game into another item in the game that was valued less and did not tell us about it.why couldn't they just say item a is going to become item b, and the players could then decide if they want to to keep item b after the change or not."
"thank you for your advise, i will certainly think about it in the future.in this case ccp did not tell us that the change will lead one item in the game will be change into another already existing item in the game."
"they most certainly did. look for the section titled \"ewar module tiericide.\""
"1.0"
"+1hyde is one of the best pilots i have ever played this game with."
"thank god you will push for a bs buff!"
"yes,yes, yes!+1a little suggestion although it may be a bit tricky to implement:for small gang and solo pvp to discourage the blob \"robots\" - reduce or enhance ecm, neut, and jam effectiveness according to how many and the balance of opponents that are on grid!"
"i find it disappointing and frankly a little sad that you refuse to have any real discussion on your campaign, i can only imagine how you'd be if you somehow got onto csm."
"several gsf guys ran on this platform got in back-to-back. they even went as far as telling people \"you're below me, and i don't have your vote anyway so go away.\""
"huh. xenuria joined goons, after being all grr goons for so long. interesting. so the goons were right, you were one of the \"they hate us 'cause they aint us\" crowd. still gonna vote for you, though."
"you have my vote even if you cuck me in local sometimesthere's no use crying after every mistake, you just keep on trying 'til you run out of cake."
"he not only joined us, we kinda like him."
"if you spent any amount of time actually reading my issues with goons you will find \"hate\" is not part of them. i feel strongly that hate is counter-productive as emotions go. i often say \"do not hate. hate is the weapon of the enemy.\"as i said earlier in the thread i was never part of the grr goons crowd. i was, and continue to be an individual with legitimate personal stake in matters relating the the goons cultural identity in new eden.this however is not a thread for discussion of social change born within a larger hegemony, this is a thread about my csm campaign. please make effort to stay on topic."
"bobmon puts in a ton of effort for the community not only by running en24 which most are familiar with, but also by working to improve the game in other ways across a variety of avenues. i think he's worth the vote, no matter your personal opinions on pl or en24"
"you should be there. here is a valid question though. the csm basically makes good and happy people into.. not so good and happy people.do you really want this job? we like you for what you do.we are afraid we'd lose you if you get elected."
"i was told that would happen when i joined pl, 14 months in and still going strong :d"
"definitely a +1 from me.if you get elected, try not to burn out and enjoy the game though!"
"pl is not quite the csm though. best of luck regardless."
"hello everyone.my name is noobman. i am the director of operations for the c5 wormhole corporation hard knocks inc.in this post i am announcing my candidacy for the 11th csm!2012the year in which i started playing eve. i started out as a miner but after four months i left that life behind me and found my way into faction warfare and other forms of lowsec pvp. to make some isk i started running incursions, mostly with the goal to buy a pilot with more sp. after a couple of months of grinding i bought noobman and that is where my eve story actually starts.after buying noobman i joined hard knocks inc as i was very drawn to way of life in wormhole space.in the years after that i climbed the ladder. starting out as a pve fc, then fc'ing the smaller armor fights with continued success i became hk<U+FFFD>s preferred fc, which began my career into wh corp administration. in may 2014 i was promoted to <U+FFFD>director of operations<U+FFFD>.nowcurrently i am still a director in hard knocks inc, in my day to day i deal with logistics, pvp, and diplomatic related things. i also write a monthly post on the state of wormholes on reddit.i<U+FFFD>ve manage poses, dealt with recruitment and handled our finances. i<U+FFFD>ve led small single corp invasions to massive multi-alliance invasions and defenses. some i<U+FFFD>ve been successful in, such as nova and some i<U+FFFD>ve failed such as polaris. i know the ins and outs of w-space, i know the hk trade secrets, and what keeps us competitive in the meta.hard knocks inc has been a force in wormhole space that has grown to be a well-known and stable entity for the past few years and i'd like to feel that i have contributed to that success.platformi have extensive knowledge of the wormhole space meta and the day to day life all wormhole corps deal with. this makes me a good candidate to represent other wormholers and myself in the csm. especially with regards to other changes and how they will affect wormhole space (null sec spawns, dread changes, citadels, to name a few recent or upcoming changes).i'd like for ccp to have a serious look again at the spawning of k-space wormholes, most notably nullsecs, in high class space. the recent changes to the numbers need to be looked at in depth to make sure that high class space is not being starved of content in the form of null sec.a second look at the possibility of more dual static wormhole classes to make wormhole space more interconnected. this has been something the wormhole community has been talking about for a long time and i'd like to bring it to the table at the csm.i want to have a voice in the eventual revamp of capital escalations. you might be surprised but i do think the current method is a bit lucrative. ccp needs someone in their corner that has been doing it for years to get it just right.i want to always bring to the table <U+FFFD>hey that is going to affect wormholers and here is why<U+FFFD>. for instance i want capitals to always have a balanced place in combat and pve. broad changes to eve needs to always have someone double checking the repercussions for w-space.personal lifeoutside of eve people call me sean, i am 25 years old and i am a computer science major. i am competitive and like to have fun. this year i got to go to eve vegas and met up with a load of friends and eve devs. my plane tickets for fanfest 2016 are booked and i hope to see many of you there (and of course the hard knocks inc amarr tournament team: wooo!).faqaren't you the cancer that is killing w-space with your rental empire?no. we don't have a rental empire, if you believed that you have been had.aren't you in pl as well?yes. i have characters in pl to fly with friends and to use my bigger space toys on a regular basis. if you're still skeptical then you should realize that i would have nothing in eve if it were not for wormholes. no wealth, no friendships, no success without w-space. w-space will always be where my heart is.will i quit leading fleets and and stop playing eve for this paper pusher job?not a chance.tl;dri'm a self-made, dedicated wormholer. if you know me, regardless of love/hate me, we've probably had a friendly conversation, or shot each other at some point. i've got the time and the knowledge to represent w-space in csm xi.feel free to contact me via in-game chat or evemail or tweetfleet slack!"
"h ello am 48 year man from somalia. sorry for bad england. i selled my wife for internet connection for play \"e v e o n l i n e\" and i want to become the goodest player like yo u"
"1.0"
"we're going to need extra ointment to deal with this krab..."
"so what would you do to liven up c6 space, that is claimed to be rented out by one major alliance and defended/expanded by that alliance and their frenemies who, although not blue, shoot each other less often than they work together?is this a game balance issue, is there something that ccp could do to break this up, or is it just a result of the massive value in c6 space and the fact that most pvp groups prefer c5 space and its better connections, leaving any potential opposition to this supposed rental empire disinclined to do anything about it. and if so should ccp do something to make c6 space more desirable to pvp groups?"
"good luck noobman :d"
"*farming intensifies*"
"as someone that regularly flew with noobman in wspace as well as now in kspace i can tell you the man knows his stuff as well as how negative or positive changes can effect wspace (kspace too). being pretty much the figurehead of almost anything hk has done noobman is a great leader with a wealth of knowledge about the game.i do have one question : will you advocate for changes even if it may severly impact your own playstyle in a negative way if for the whole of wspace/kspace it ends up being a largely positive change?"
"for real tho, noob is an active player and knowledgeable in wh going ons. if i had to pick someone who could give info and advice on the future of holes, it would be him. also he lent me a dread once which was nice. )+1"
"joined w-space expecting to find that hk + noobman were assholes.was somewhat disappointed when they weren't.+1"
"fastest way to have wh space turned into dominion sov nullsec would be to vote for this man. all i can hope for is that the wh cfc coalition has lost enough merritt by now so there wont be a horde effect. keep wh space rent and blue doughnut free -1"
"is good krab)"
"hk would not be the corp we are today without noobman, i can say with absolute certainty that his dedication and ability to inspire is one of the main reasons we've become who we are today, and i wouldn't have it any other way.#noobman4csmalso, i can see that k162 hasn't fully collapsed yet and is shitting up your post, go back to being irrevenant."
"one of few men i would have accompany me going two holes deep.+1"
"being a wh corp ceo, noobman has my vote!"
"ah yes an ex-noho salt post, why am i not surprised. i forgot about the amazing csm that your alliance gave us (corbexx) who went to goons straight away and told everyone he had \"alts in wormhole corps\" like that was meant to make it completely ok.time for someone who is actually active in wormholes to give it a go i think."
"+1noobman will make a great csm member"
"1.0"
"i'd like to know more about your feelings on capital escalations. you say they are \"a bit lucrative\", and i can't tell if you are being sarcastic or not. what sorts of changes would you like to see?i'd also love to hear more about your feelings on capital ships, given the announced plans.csm 7 secretary csm 6 alternate delegate @two_step_eve on twitter my blog"
"we had king twostep (hes my boo)"
"+1good luck m8"
"fyi the best way to lose some of your most active players in game, is to get them voted onto csm."
"yes, i am clearly better than the false idol (corbexx)csm 7 secretary csm 6 alternate delegate @two_step_eve on twitter my blog"
"while we're talking about ex-noho folk.hi two step, you sex panda."
"dude, i told you to stop looking in my window. the costumes i wear during sex are between me and the consenting creatures i have sex with.csm 7 secretary csm 6 alternate delegate @two_step_eve on twitter my blog"
"-1 from me.one of the main guys turning higher class holes into renters paradise... running for csm to \"better wh space\"... yeah...no thanks."
"congrats seraph, you have been had!"
"judging by all the dead corps coming back to life to cry here we did wellgl noob"
"i said turning... not running it... learn to read helping qex evict people. helping lzhks evict people... spew all the bullshit you want, hell go ahead and twist what people say... standard pr...i'll say no more on the matter... enjoy."
"i for one would love noobman to be on the csm his knowledge and insight in killing fun would be a welcome addition /sarcasam, maybe with his attention focused on the csm he wont be able to rent out all of c5-c6 space. so mr noobman what would you push as changes to the wspace as we see it today, more isk for sites perhaps, your own personal kill fun button?"
"as far as a wormhole candidate goes, i can't think of anyone i'd prefer over noobman. generally good debates, logic and reasoning is what i remember from him.a solid candidate even if the platform needs a little work. +1, gl man."
"noobmanis a good manthere's no use crying after every mistake, you just keep on trying 'til you run out of cake."
"elect someone who wants the game better for everyone... not just his group. vote vic!"
"+1 real human beanmake eve great again"
"glhf+1, cool dude"
"i'd like to add a point that has been popping up recently. hictors. hictors are awesome, and recently, a little too awesome. while i love the fear that my 40k scramble strikes into the hearts for orthus pilots, the range is a little out of hand. i see a couple options for hictor balancing. for the scramble infinite point, ccp can either have it act like a bubble, and turn off all propulsion mods and severely gimp your speed, or they can split the script into a 40k long point, and say 15-20k short point. personally, i like the former idea just because it fits the \"feel\" of an interdiction cruiser. also, to go along with nerfing the hictors new found range, i'd like to see more scripts added to give hictors additional functionality besides just bubbles and super tackle. i would like to see scripts to add things like mobile cyno inhibitor fields, scan inhibitors, and maybe even aoe stasis webbing after the supercaps get their new ewar systems tinkered into pseudobalance."
"edit: i have decided to withdraw my bid for the csm. i plan to focus my efforts on my corporation and alliance and wish all of the other wormhole candidates the best of luck!hello friends,i am tiger tesla and i would like to announce my candidacy for csm xi.about myself i started playing in the spring of 2009 as a astrophysics student in college. the games scope and complexity was very awe-inspiring, and i couldn't wait to get involved. i started off as most players do, and started mining. i loved the social aspects of the game, but found it hard to get engaged with my corp-mates as most of them were, well, afk mining. after trying out nullsec, and dabling in lowsec, i found myself in wormholes in 2012. i still felt that i hardly knew the game, and here i was learning something else! that was where i first made bonds with the pilots i have been flying with even to this day. it wasn't truely until 2013 that i really fell in love with pvp and also started flying with spectre fleet. spectre allowed me to learn how to fc, and the community there has been great in generating content and fun pvp events over the past 2 years. today i spend most of my time as the ceo of my wormhole corporation, as well as pvping with spectre fleet. i understand that the csm is a filtering tool, allowing ccp to vet ideas and initiate discussion on topics based on our knowledge and experiences. that being said the following are issues/ideas i would like to see discussed within the course of csm xi (in no particular order): assault frigates: i love the asthetic of these ships, but it is hard to warrant bringing one over a t3 destroyer battleships: although machariels have seen a resurgance, i feel that all battleships should be forces to recon with on the battlefield, balanced by their slow deployment. alliance bookmarks: this is a quality of life improvement that everyone can benefit from cross-fleet broadcasts: as our hardware and technology increases on tranquility, we should make the ability to have the giant fights on giant grids easier. wormhole life: wormholes are about to see a big change all at once. the citadel expansion will fundamentally change how we live and make our living in wormhole space, and i want to make sure that this change promotes more people living in wormhole space. npsi community qol changes: there are many changes that would help the npsi community, and one of them is the ability for the fc to be able to set temporary standings for the fleet. this would also allow alliance fcs on the battlefield to change allegiances with other fleets on grid. being able to set the visible color of other fleets could also be incredibly beneficial. i am excited to discuss my ideas and thoughts on any topic, so please ask if you have any questions. you can also reach me on twitter @tiger_tesla and on reddit /u/tiger_teslao7tiger tesla"
"oh neat, you didn't tell me you were running! good luck!"
"dear everybody,i am koahi and i want everyone to have fun and be cool. i also want eve to make sense which is a much more difficult goal to accomplish.eve could use a lot of changes but i'm going to start with 2. first, i want entosis modules to affect ships the way cyno modules do. if the module is active, you are immobilized and defenseless. if an attacking entity wants to successfully take a node, they'll have to actually hold the grid. imagine if an attacking fleet actually had to weigh the risk and rewards to choose which nodes they need to focus in order to take a region, instead of \"lol, i wasted both our times, this is so much fun.\"second, who pays concord? who pays for all their ships and fancy modules? surely its not all the npc corporations, they're separate corporations. surely its not player corps, they don't pay anything to concord for protection. i think its about time concord started collecting dues for all of its duties. this actually needs to be broken down into 2 parts.1. players/player made corporations will now need to pay a monthly fee to concord if they wish to remain in the same protection in place right now. the actual amount will need to be determined with some good data-mining to ensure that the number doesn' bankrupt new players, but will still have a meaningful impact to veterans. corporations will receive a bulk discount. a group of players will pay less than if each player paid individually. if a player in a concord protection corporation chooses to attack another protected player, concord will raise the corporations rates up until a maximum percentage. 2. players will be automatically removed from their starting corporations after a predetermined amount of time after creation (or maybe it should be after amount of months subbed). they'll be marked as corp-less, or thrown in some corporation named corp-less. they'll either need to pay concord protection themselves, join a corporation that has protection enabled, this or be open to attack. obviously this will be communicated clearly to the player. what is the point of all that you ask? well one it would add another level of cooperation and social interaction within player made corporations. it also gives highsec players a choice. do you wish to remain in concord protection and have everything remain the same? well throw some isk at concord and you won't have to worry about a thing. do you want the law to leave you alone? now they will!i highly appreciate any feedback and criticism, although not as much. also as i believe in transparency, i must inform my constituents that i really dislike anything that has to do with butts. thank you!also questions are welcome! i imagine since this is eve online forums you would have to keep your questions eve related."
"ko'ahi for csm.change we can believe in."
"bat country, in association with koahisquad, endorse this message. refuse to believe scurrilous rumours put about by lesser candidates of splits in our superpac:"
"hi, most of you know me not at all, or simply as 'that guy that posts badly on reddit (sometimes).' believe it or not, every now and then something happens or comes along that warrants me sitting down, breaking out the typewriter, and attempting to crank out an actual good post instead of the usual memey one-liner drivel. i've been playing eve for about five years now; which still makes me a baby compared to some, certainly, but eve is my passion. the community, the politics, the underdog stories, the hours of patience and dedication leading up to a few minutes of an adrenaline-pumping fight. i think every now and then we as players forget that we have a game here that is quite unlike any other, where some player you've perhaps never heard of can have a profound impact on your game, be it positive or negative. where friendships and indeed grudges can last well over a decade, where your past can haunt you and yes, your decisions matter immensely. no other game is quite like eve, and i think we all ought to be doing our best to preserve this gem that we share.it's no secret to anybody that has been following the overarching eve 'story' that age is starting to take it's toll on our favorite pastime; the number of logged in players are down from their peak, new player retention is still poor despite many attempts to encourage newbies into the game, and there are no more large-scale conflicts or wars that drive the eve narrative, giving players a sense of purpose. i've made no secret of the fact that i'm not a fan of the jump range/fatigue changes from the phoebe expansion, and even less so of the new 'aegis sov' system which promotes harassment and 'sov-trolling' over meaningful and satisfying conflict. i've always been a lowsec player at heart, but sovereign nullsec is, has been, and always will be the beating heart of the eve story. as things stand currently, sov space is in dire need of some tender loving care if we want to see eve live to the end of it's second decade.in the olden days, as a smaller independent lowsec player i could never hope to capture and hold sovereign space without bending the knee to a larger coalition force. this was a result of the broken nature of power projection, or rather the fact that a well organized alliance could be anywhere at the map it wanted to be within minutes notice, making it a trivial thing for a small but powerful alliance or group of alliances to hold vast amounts of space. the phoebe expansion fixed that by and large, restricting travel and imposing consequences on those who tried to grasp beyond their reach. this resulted in the shrinking of empires, meaning a little alliance like my own could capture and hold sov if i wanted to, and had the military might to conquer it from the locals. the fatigue changes had several side effects however; move ops were now a multi-hour affair with near guaranteed frustration for all involved. missing an alliance move op more than likely meant suicide for your super or titan. it also meant several days worth of moving one jump, one hour at a time to your new staging system, and so on. it fixed the problem ccp set out to fix, but it came with a lot of baggage in the form of simply un-fun gameplay (being 'unable to play' while you have fatigue, waking up at downtime to move your super one jump at a time, taking everybody and putting them on small, separated 'content islands' so to speak).even with this, eve adapted and trudged on. power blocs dissolved or otherwise diminished, war still happened, narrative was generated. people logged in and did things in space.then aegis sov rolled out on patch day, and it all ground to a halt. entire regions, rich with good truesec and abundant r64 moons were abandoned by organizations that didn't want them anymore. sov war was no longer about who had the military might, but who had the most endurance to resist sov trolling. sov can now be attacked by a single t1 frig at the same rate that it would be if attacked by a thousand dreadnoughts. vast capital armadas, already crippled by the jump drive changes, were now all but worthless. attackers could now maliciously attack your space with literally anything they had in their hangars, forcing you to travel perhaps across the entire region through bubbles and all sorts of unpleasantries, only to have the single t1 frigate warp off as soon as you entire local, and then return again after you'd left. with fatigue, jump bridges are no longer a viable option for defending your own sov either. attackers could troll your sov all day long with nothing more than the intent to cause you to want to quit, without risking anything more than a frigate. bad game design, and un-fun gameplay. with the scales so skewered, many people simply abandoned their sov and went to pick up the nomadic lifestyle, already made painful by fatigue. for the first time in eve's history we've seen a mass exodus of players and organizations leaving nullsec because of the gameplay involved. and no matter how good of an idea ccp may have thought it was, the players are the paying subscribers, and they have made their opinions apparent.cont.there's no use crying after every mistake, you just keep on trying 'til you run out of cake."
"for things like this, we are supposed to have the csm to provide a reasonable, balanced group of active players who represent the best interests of the eve community as a whole. what we get every year is a popularity contest where bloc votes elect inactive and ineffective arbiters, or popular community icons who lack extensive knowledge of the mechanics at hand. the csm needs to be comprised of active and involved alliance leaders, fcs, and content generators; the people who work for hours every day dealing with the in-game mechanics and know their constituents best. it's easy to say, 'start a war,' when you are not the one who has to do the grinding. as someone who works over 40 hours a week in their real job, comes home and spends even more time than that running an eve alliance, i would like to ask for your consideration in the csm xi election. i do not consider myself a lowsec or nullsec candidate, nor a capital or sub-capital candidate. i am simply a person who loves this game very much and wants to see it return to a time where wars of consequence are fought, and people are not mechanically deterred from enjoying the multitude of experiences eve has to offer.thank you for your time.there's no use crying after every mistake, you just keep on trying 'til you run out of cake."
"1.0"
"yer gay pwned"
"helolex arson is the fc of my dreams he is without a doubt the only person to tell me that a shemale had a cute ****that sort of thing just sticks with you, you know? +1 for this good manu have the power of tishu and reddit and autism at ur hands. dont squander this opportunity lex"
"lex, capri, gevlonim terrifiededit: forgot my +1"
"im gay by the way"
"thanks for csm lex+1"
"you troll around and **** on forums but when it comes down to it you understand the game and give serious topics measured and critical thought.+1 from john blathos and many more from strong iago corp."
"who"
"+1what a time to be alive"
"posting on the first page of a thread"
"known lex for a long time, and is someone who truly understands the mechanics and driving forces behind eve online and what makes for a healthy game. +1"
"+1 lex is a nerd"
"as someone with a vast knowledge of in game mechanics and a passion for driving and delivering content, +1 to you csm thread. you've got my votes"
"+1 for mehas the sexiest voice"
"finally, +1, not a truer word said. it changed the game and so many have left since. and now wait for it. a super can now be tackled by a bunch of frigs. are capitals not slow enough already are they not already trampled down by jump fatigue loss of cap on jumping, and the fact that they are possible the easiest target to hold down. im sure that ccp are now feeling the cash fatigue caused by this hence the new reduction of space aids. i personally have moved away from eve since this and i have started to spend my hard earned cash on other games. eve was my go to game every time i stared my pc, now i really dont care for it. it was great whilst it was a sand box but it seems ccp forgot about that bit.......seems that ccp need to hold yearly meetings so that they can re-inject cash into the game in other ways. how long is it going to be before the real eve junkies say no to the high prices......... ?"
"1.0"
"+1 lex finally made a good post.you can quote me on this the next time i say \"make a good post\" lex."
"wow. on the eve-o forums? in a spotlight thread? savage af fam. cuts me deep."
"i dig it. +1"
"you got my vote lex."
"tl;dr+1 anyways, dank candidate"
"+1dudes pretty much the reason i'm still subbed. with some of the ideas i've heard i think he can do that for other players as well through some subtle and not so subtle changes to our favorite hobby"
"+1i've known lex for a little over a year and can attest that he's a man that knows his capitals and while a generally bad poster can make some pretty epic good posts as evidenced by this thread. you have my vote lex arson sir"
"exactly what the csm needs, +1!"
"edited op to add some bold to break up wall of text a bitalso ama etcedit: and as for why i'm not pushing more of a lowsec platform after spending most of my career as a lowsec/npc player, i honestly think lowsec is in a good place right now. you have good income, your adversaries live relatively close by in terms of ly, gate guns and sec status keep things interesting and 'in-lore' without being game breaking or even annoying. facwar has gotten a lot of love in the past few years (tho as niden mentioned, the standings hit for smartbombing in a friendly fleet needs to be fixed). all in all there are conflict drivers and income sources, and's that's really all you need for a good 'sec space.'there's no use crying after every mistake, you just keep on trying 'til you run out of cake."
"who?"
"so the goons will get their 2-4 nullsec focused csms pl will get theirsa few other null focused csms will most likely be elected depending on how smaller alliances vote.do we need another null sec focused candidate that doesn't have any skin in the game?i've heard nothing but good things about you and i am sure you would be great, but i have to question the need for another null focused candidate when over half the candidates will be focused on these issues.what separates your perspective on null from the other 5-8 candidates that will certainly be elected running on the exact same platform you are?the expansion cycle has been almost exclusively focused on null for the last year plus. every single csm is full of very smart null players, but according to the narrative null life has never been worse. why should independent players still throw their votes at null candidates that either cant do the job or ccp won't listen to anyway.i would probably vote for your name as most people have a lot of respect for you, but i can't if you are running on the platform of high-sec is fine, low-sec is fine, null-sec is crap, and whs should be ignored or left up to that one wh csm that's now a goon.edit: if i misread and you are running on the platform of increasing conflict drivers in null then please explain some of your ideas and how they will be able to be intertwined with existing mechanics and the upcoming release of citadels."
"hey lex are we done moving, you never told me where we were going...."
"i'm attempting to run on the \"i actually log in and play the game, and thus have a slight idea of what i'm talking about\" platform.have a look at least years' elected csm -"
"thanks for answering in a well thought out manner lex. i hope i didn't come off as combative.i thought the explanation that you actually play the game was quite good.i will be very interested in reading and listening to your interviews as the campaigns really get underway.good luckedit: grammar"
"hello all,i am chitsa jason and i would like to announce my candidacy for csm xi.the grandeur of wspace has greatly diminished in past few years. while coalitions and alliances increase and knowledge of mechanics rises so the fun plummets. wormholes need to regain mystery and feeling of unknown. i dream of discovery and i dream of unknown. about me:i have been playing eve non stop since 2009. i have been on csm8 as wormhole rep. i do run magic gate which is public fleet for wspace. i have been ceo of couple corps throughout the years. i do login every day and i do play every day. i am one of administrators of merc contracts channel. i usually get on spectre fleet and do something stupid. i love tackling carriers in null sec. my corp mates think im too suicidal with my revelation and it has not even died in months. what i would like to do as csm:* help ccp to create something mysterious. something what drives our collective imaginations in this game. something what is graspable but at the same time elusive. * fix what i have broken in wspace. try to restore null sec wormhole spawns.* try to prepare wspace for citadels and make sure those things do not **** wspace up. i do understand that some ideas are crazy/not enough/**** you chitsa. so please please contact me if you have something to say:contact me at:skype: kasparas jasiukenasfacebook: kasparas jasiukenastwitter: @chitsajasonfor those who are from null sec. scan that one wh once in your life time please :)burn the land and boil the sea you can't take the sky from me"
"chitsa for csm!!!"
"chitsa is a good man +1"
"1.0"
"-1.0"
"in light of recent... comical outbursts of random role switching that has happened this csm.... let me bring up the big elephant in the room.have you \"chitsa\", been in communication, or in negotiations with said nullsec bloc's regarding this run at csm. to be specific, has any promises, inquiries, questions, ascertions, conversations, talks, tweets, jabbers, slack communication, skype calls, real calls, and or any other method of known and unknown communications, or alien speech, gone on between yourself and such large nullbloc entities (in summation but not in finaly:, goonswarm and/or imperium and or any and all allies, alliances, corporate members, blue or there such, known or unknown to the public? pandemic legion, xxdeath, ncdot, look at veritas map and included, those present and not), regarding any coercion or switching of sides, publicly or not, that would put you adverse and or against those of the wormhole space community?(non bull-sh-t speech), are you going to switch corporations/alliances/coalitions/ in a hawaiian shirt (or any other shirt not of hawaiian origin, or nude) during and/or before your csm tenure?"
"i am not corbexxburn the land and boil the sea you can't take the sky from me"
"ibet while corbexx performed some.. entertaining drama during the csm event, the actions did bring up a significant concept with the csm that will be forever burned into the wormholers life.i didn't ask if you were corbexx (i guess implied with the hawaiian shirt thing). i asked that while you go out and court the nullsec bloc votes, will you switch sides once you've achieved your goal of being csm? aka will you magically say \"hey i'm joining pandemic legion (or some other null group) because i can help wspace better working with them?\"... pretty straight question (ibet hard). now am i asking if you are going to be wspace forever? no. i know this is a game and people need to both play and enjoy it as much as the next person. yes i can be a bit of a jerk with some of this csm questioning but that is because i care so much about wspace and i want to see it flourish. i'd rather ride a potential candidate into the ground and people tell me i'm a jerk for doing it, if it shows that candidates true intentions are to be an advocate for wspace, or just a placeholder for another group."
"i have been in wspace through fighting aharm, rooks and kings, aquila, qex, ssc, hard knocs, lazerhawx and other multiple entities. i do not plan to leave wspace as i am happy here. people leave and join wspace i stay constant. burn the land and boil the sea you can't take the sky from me"
"so i asked this on reddit but i think i should ask this here as well because while i think you are a good person i cant with a clean conscience just stand by without making a post that maybe has some substance and would shed some light on whether you would make a good or bad wh candidate.why are you running?to try an clarify, or maybe point you in the right direction here, ill comment on what you have already posted in your op vague statement with no substance. we all like a little mystery and this line would have worked in a whers campaign 4 years ago, not so much these days. please either provide something of substance or stop feeding people crap.can we get specifics? how do you think you have broken wspace? how are you going to convince ccp that fury road should be returned? there were plenty of townhalls and as it stands now they dont look to be breaking anything in wspace. please provide maybe specifics on what you imagine citadels might break in wspace or what you see as an issue in the current citadel plan."
"i like to know where my vote is going towards and why it matters, so let me ask you this.as an elected represenative, what will you be doing to improve w-space and specifically improve the quality of life for wormhole players such as me and yourself. (no assembling t3s in wh's, bad role mechanics, stale n+1 guardian fights)?"
"are you going to push k-space crap like you have done in the past?"
"sorry too big of a post i wrote ccp forums did not want to format. gonna write it tommorow as i wake up.burn the land and boil the sea you can't take the sky from me"
"before i jump on the bandwagon... i just want to make sure which wagon this is (there are a few out there). just looking for an expansion of this comment well don't let us stop you. go on."
"i dont even know wtf you mean. burn the land and boil the sea you can't take the sky from me"
"chitsa jason is good people +1"
"i think he means rallying w-space for your crusade against nullsec."
"hi chitsa \o/"
"aah if your talking about the invasion proposal some years ago.oddly enough i thought the concept had merit, but the wspace warlords have no interest in sustained long term attacks (else we'd had taken a constellation and claimed it as wspace boogie men area, no girls allowed. now will someone eventually pull that off... maybe. it'll be hilarious to see.i don't blame him (or have a negative view) for trying."
"this might refresh your memory"
"so when will your two corps be announcing your w-space candidates?"
"that was long time ago and i do not plan to do anything like that. it also has no connection to csm.burn the land and boil the sea you can't take the sky from me"
"a long time ago, in a galaxy far away<U+FFFD>that seems to be the theme these days.i<U+FFFD>m not judging the sound-cloud, this is not a tread about that, and we had enough of that both in eve-o and reddit at the time.no<U+FFFD>the point here is we have chitsa jason as a candidate for csm, and from a csm candidate two things are expected, honesty and the ability to convince others. honesty to his fellow capsulers and the ability to convince ccp to address issues brought out by said capsulers.well,that sound-cloud is a very poor example of the ability to convince others, maybe was a bad day, or a bad topic, or even a bad audience.as for honesty, we got the first denial in less than four hours of the candidacy.from my point of view your candidacy started on the wrong foot. maybe i am just too demanding from the people that are supposed to represent us.we all have our flaws"
"it's slightly unfair to hold it against him. it was a project and an attempt at different gameplay. i don't fault him for trying. successful or not, smart or not, he tried.that's fine for the most part. (as much as we can troll candidates, i have no issue with giving a person a fair shot).note to all, anybody that runs under a wormhole platform i'll ask those types of questions.why the change? you want to change back and bring back more of the kspace connections for wspace. you advocated for the change in the first place and now want it's return?why? (i'm not asking if they are good or bad, merely why the change)."
"don't be mad ssc's unknown didn't get up last year. i am pretty sure this attempt won't succeed second time around either. get back to getting your daily sites done, gotta fill out the payout sheet m8."
"i'd like to know if you will be promising to quit your job to csm full time this time around, as you claimed you would do last time.csm 7 secretary csm 6 alternate delegate @two_step_eve on twitter my blog"
"yeah i remember that as one of the things where my reaction was \"i can't believe someone at ccp wants to implement that dumb idea i had once ages ago\". the thing is the more i think about it the more positives i can see about it."
"yes.- co-processors- reactor control units- micro auxiliary power cores- light missile launchers- capacitor flux coils- cargo scanners- ship scanners- survey scanners- microwarpdrives- afterburners- armor plates- mining lasers- cargo expanders- reinforced bulkheads- nanofiber internal structures- inertial stabilizers- overdrive injectors- shield rechangers- warp disruption field generatorsthe list goes on.and ccp has been doing this for a long while.rebalancing eve, one module at a time(this is from september 2014)rebalancing modules in eve online, round two(this is from december 2014)and not just modules either. the ship rebalancing efforts have done some very similar things.one of the best examples of this are mining barges and exhumers.they were all rebalanced in a way where they now all have the same number of effectively strip miners. the only differences between them are; one is tanky, one has a huge ore capacity, one has slightly better mining rates.i did. you are complaining that players value a module less than what they did before and blaming ccp for making the change.the fact that players value \"your stock\" less due to the changes ccp made is not ccp's concern. their interest is making all modules viable (see: usable) and not having a single version of a module dominate because it has the best of everything (t2 performance with low fitting and low capacitor cost and still cheaper than any faction or deadspace variant). because if players could choose between the version of a module that is being phased because it is better versus the new one which is more \"balanced\"... players will keep the better version.this goes against the rebalancing efforts.a better link: [december] module tiericide - neutralizers and nosferatu"
"besides the stuff that's already been said, the module changes (including the naming convention) were up on the test server for a good long while.you had plenty of opportunity to notice the changes if you had paid attention."
"i presume you also support ccp removing isk from people who had items in their hangar which saw a price rise as a part of the changes?"
"thank you sir may i have another!?! i consider myself properly chastised.still gonna vote for you."
"i will be supporting bobmon as my number 1 pick this year. he is very well respected by the eve community and has connections with all the different groups and play styles, not to mention a good platform to garner viewpoints and share information through eve news 24.i think he would be one of the most beneficial choices for the eve community.hope you all have a very merry christmas!"
"nice guy, knows his stuff, motivated has my vote :)"
"i have removed a troll reply."
"uhm, +1 ;)"
"i'll start out by saying eve is a sandbox. if someone wants to build an empire and has the military might to do so then what ever the heart desires. w-space is very unique compared to the rest of eve. unlike in null where goons can reach every region they control and defend it with n+1 fleets, that is just not the case in w-space. sure you can rage roll the 113 c6s and 512 c5s (plus shattered whs) but can the defender keep up that every single day to defend 1 system in their \"empire\"? there is counter play in the current game, what the opposition to empires lacks is organization and a plan they can follow through with. the spawn rate of sites in c6 space is better. more sites per day = more isk. less k-space connections = less pvp. less pvp groups living in c6 space or in c5/c6 = less chance of your pve fleet getting caught. these are all reasons why c6 has evolved into a more attractive space to pve in. eve players are notorious for finding the most efficient way to spend thier time, so they created an empire to do it.lastly you ask \"should ccp do something to make c6 space more desirable to pvp groups?\" if they made c6's have dual static 3bil holes, i could seriously attempt to persuade my corp to move to a c6 with a c5 and null static. it would be the dream to have a high class static and a null connection."
"hi noobman,i'm curious as to your views on the introduction of the new citadel structures for replacing poses (as currently iterated by ccp), and what impact you think that they'll have on wh life."
"he is good man )))"
"you provided some overarching ideas for reshaping wh space.could you go into more details into your vision of altering wh pve space, both with low and high wh space. looking for some of the nitty gritty details like mechanic changes to spawns, wh mass, income etc.whats your take on the proposed implementation of citadels and wh space and any changes you'd like to implement?"
"i think that would have to be answered on a case by case basis. if something is going to negatively affect w-space but is a \" largely positive change\" there has to be a compromise, or some idea or tweak that could make it better. if your talking about a risk of something ccp wants to implement for a larger vision it really just depends. when ccp came to us with the citadel changes and information, all of w-space fought for the current revised plan for citadels. i think ccp was surprised that we wanted a more brutal and hardcore rules for ourselves in w-space. with the success we had with changing ccp's minds on citadels i know there will be more opportunities to do the same thing in the future."
"-1 my only contact with hk was getting shittalked in local. idk about the guy, but he's leading this bunch of edgy 15 years old teenagers."
"i'm not being sarcastic, i've have made the entirely of my wealth from capital escalations. i know the real numbers of what you can pump out of a c6 mag or c5 mag or just a no effect c5. i've capital escalated in all of them. i don't think the current method of solo 'hero\" dreading should be the baseline for the revamp of capital pve. i would like to see a larger cap fleet required. the difficulty of a perfect redesign is someone is always going to be able to run 5-6 clients and do it solo, which skews the isk per hour per person. that person is taking on all the risk and has all the isk invested in the pilots and ships, not to mention the immense workload of doing it solo (not just the sites themselves but the daily prep).i think the isk values of the sites themselves are not an issue. i'm not an economist nor do i have access to ccp data. what i think has the majority of w-space upset is the 4 day respawn. if you are unfamiliar you can capital-ly escalate a site 4 days in a row before it despawns as long as you do not kill the trigger. all of the isk is in the escalation waves. now if you had all sites be on a 24 lifetime, you would have sites randomly spawning at all times of the day. it would make the wormholes that are complete bearholes more active: they might run at multiple times a day they might run the site to completion for the extra isk since it's not going to respawn. they will have more new sigs while running, makes it feel more risky for the guy doing it solo because he has to stop what he's doing to scan down the new data/relic site. will promote safety in larger groups. promotes being active in your wormhole, instead of checking at dt if you got new sites then running them at your prefered time. now that is just 1 idea. there are so many tweaks you could do the the spawn sizes, the spawn locations, multiple rooms (say half the value is in capital escalation then you unlock a room or an open mission beacon generated that you can take subcaps only to that is the other half of the value.)and lastly and and sort of controversially what if npc kills increased the likelihood of a wormhole spawning in your hole?"
"+1he has all my votes."
"+1 :)"
"as an official diplomat, i endorse this person for csm+1"
"noobman, basically the backbone of hard knocks. as a director, content creator, awesome fc, master krab or just as someone to motivate many others, also me - he's done an absolutely amazing job.he's always been nice and never grumpy even after a bad day and people bugging him.i offer my sincere thanks together with my deepest respect for all that has been achieved by him. lo noobman+1"
"i'll propose you a compromise.you dual static the c6. but instead of a static k space, it is a static shattered hole.so all the 100ish c6 space gain a static shattered wormhole as their 2nd static.to improve the odds with shattered space, each shattered wormhole gains a static shattered connection. so each shattered wormhole has at least 1 hole connected to another shattered hole, and statistically should have a c6 wormhole connected to it (maybe multiple).the concept here is to create a wormhole highway. you find 1 shattered wormhole, you find them all. you potentially are able to go to every single c6 wormhole in a single night if you are so inclined to through shattered space.c5 wormholes obtain random wandering shattered wormholes to correspond with the access c6 space has.you virtually double the playability and size of c6 space by interconnecting shattered systems to them.wspace now has a roaming ground.c5 and c6 space gain a entirely new method to pvp.tl:dr. shattered holes interconnect to each other. dual static c6, and the second static is to shattered space. highway created, roaming area created, new combat methods created, c6 space becomes launchpoints, c5 join in on the fun, all wspace now have their own killing fields."
"upbumps +1"
"i will kill many freigther krab in highsec to celebrate you))"
"+1holy **** did noho ping for shitposts? it's about time wormholes had a csm which represented the actual community and partakes in defining it. i believe noobman will hold the interests of the larger wh community far higher than ****** youtube personalit"
"jesus, dont drown in the koolaid..."
"right back at ya matey.+1 to noobman, as a director in lzhx i respect him for making hk what it is today, that has taken alot of work and shows me how much effort he's going to put into this.selling wh cfc standings 10b/month for +10 with: lazerhawks, hard knocks, overwatch this, many vacancies, golden showers, friendly probes, isogen memed. join up for swag c3 gila/osprey ratting fleets daily! we also rent c2s out with cv effect!"
"you want to ping some more?"
"hate to tell you this buddy... i know, this might come as a shock to you... but noho doesn't exist any more. the two you mention above can fall flat on their face for all i care.how much time do you think he's going to have to play eve, and run hk and fleets, when he get's onto the csm? he will, if he's serious, have all of his time eaten up by the csm. by people mailing him left right and centre. ceos of corps that no one has heard of asking him to air a proposal or by running wh townhalls where the answer isn't muting everyone who dissagrees with you.as for putting the larger wormhole community far higher... tell me, do you think he will air views and fight for something that the majority of the wh community wants if it's not what (and possibly hurts) the gameplay style of lzhks and hk? that's an actual serious question, not a dig in any way..."
"noobman gets 64% of my vote!!"
"+2 votes here. vote early vote often!"
"+1 couldn't think of anyone better to help protect our way of life in wormholes especially when it comes to pvp."
"+1 if noobman doesn't suddenly jump ship to become a goon diplo \o/"
"i can totally agree with that many positive postings about noobman. in the short time i was in hk he was always positive, had a good manner, never salty and there where everytime a friendly conversation. no matter which party won. he has a huge knowledge of wspace and its mechanics and eve in general. he do and did a great job in hk and for whspace and i bet he will continue. like sometimes before you saw he is able for this position and he stands for what he talks. like he stated on podcasts etc.i hope the csm stuff will not burn him too much and he still have his gaming fun in eve left.this is not a fanboy upvote, this is a upvote from someone who give him a try because its worth it.+1"
"dear noobman. can you shed some light on what your experience in wspace beyond c5 and cap escalations is? is there a reason anyone who doesnt live in c5 space should vote for you?"
"1.0"
"actually, i'm leading a bunch of dudes who enjoy rustling people jimmies like yours. :3"
"i have a similar question.do you have any idea on how to repopulate wh-space?besides farming corps and two hand full of seriouse pvp entities there is mostly dead space.what is your imagination of citadels and capitals in wh-space?even though you might be a big name in wh-space, you should tell us some more before you get my vote. it's not only about knowledge, it's also about your vision on the future of wh-space"
"every csm election is the same, people think that the person running will be able to get their \"vision\" implemented. it just isn't how it works at all, ccp don't come to the csm and say \"ok what do you want us to do to fix wh space give us your list and lets work on it\". they will be asked their opinion on problems and the solutions ccp is working on at the moment. sure ask them what they like and dislike about wh space but when you want them to have specific plans to fix issues then stop thinking their solutions will ever be made into a reality.i prefer to vote for the person, their history they have had in wh space, the time i know they put into the game, the amount of time/effort i have seen them put into debating wh issues in public with others. noobman meets that criteria 100% that's why i vote for him because i probably will disagree with a few of his specific plans anyway, but when i do i know we would be able to go to him and explain why and get a rational response from him as to why he would go for an idea we don't like if that makes sense."
"noobman, good to hear your running for csm.i have a question for you what do you think the next big thing to effect wormhole space after the citadels expansion."
"f)fozziesov, the newbie factory farm, brought to you by two separate and dissonant entry bars.basically, one of my big issues with aegissov is that, while the bar to mechanically taking sov has been lowered drastically, the hidden bar to it, namely having the personnel and it infrastructure to actually meaningfully populate what you hold, hasn't changed. sure you may need more than an interceptor and some perseverance to take a system now, but actually building something there still takes a herculean effort on account of many people to have it have a chance of holding. you need forums, jabber, authorization people, spymasters, logistics people, amateur accountants, diplomats...etc. in practice what it means is that the existing powers that were, powers that be, have just used this to further leverage control over newbies and other players, as only the big pre-existing powers realistically had a good chance of having all the out of game tools to effectively hold and populate sov, despite the ability to plant a flag with a cruiser. newbies have become a commodity to the sov old guard to protect their holdings, while any new sov aspirants are effectively still gated by the out of game stuff that makes new empires unlikely to succeed or compete with the established entities. there's no reason to start an empire de-novo when you can just stick alts or characters in ones that have the organizational capacity to manage and maintain sov already.complex things do not spontaneously assemble. they take time, and small incremental steps of progress that can be exposed to selection. if the development focus is going to remain on trying to make aegis sov better, it would be wise to give areas where intermediate steps of alliance evolution can actually be nurtured, and things can actually develop, rather than the current paradigm where you need a complete organization, all in one insurmountable step, just to put your toes in the waters of sov.lowsec is actually working to some degree, and i wouldn't want to see it changed on account of anything. npc null would be working, if there was any way for players to actually earn isk there to support a pvp habit, but again, i wouldn't want to see npc null changed into sov lite. in either the case of npc null or low, it attracts a different crowd anyway; players who actually want to shoot at each other for fun, whereas sov has basically become, you guessed it, simply a newbie factory farm because anomalies are accessible, available, and not terrible income for new players.basically what i mean to frame here is this: when you funnel newbies into sov as a commodity, you deprive them from experiencing many other aspects of the game, many of which they would have found compelling and interesting. even though the entry barrier is mechanically lower, you aren't getting new groups to really engage in things because of out of game barriers. essentially, what i am asking for is an end to the monopolization of newbies by sov, and that the way to do this is to actually put available, accessible, and good income sources other places. fw? that's something for alts. incursions? that's something for alts. put the income where people actually want to live, and newbies may find the game less of a chore, or where they need to join a sov alliance to sustain themselves. let people play as they will."
"a very helpful and informative guy. +1 from me as well."
"while i personally like these proposals it all brings up the same question in my mind that i think of in 90% of csm election posts:say you're elected, how would you deal with these proposals being dismissed out of hand by devs? do you see the csm mostly as an opportunity to pitch your ideas, or as an opportunity to converse with devs about their ideas?"
"well it's not just about ideas. csm members bring to the table a vision of what they want eve to become. the process is definitely more a conversation rather than a one sided pitch. for example, i want more game mechanics to have a certain level of interactivity with players as opposed to being just a blanket mechanic, hence my concord idea. but that idea is just a very small part in the grand direction that i wish to see the game progress. even if the idea is dismissed, other ideas/opportunities might arise from the discussion, i will continue to try to take eve in the direction that i feel is best."
"clan khan supports and endorses the set of proposals koahi brought forward and koahi's candidacy itself."
"this time i will not quit my job :)burn the land and boil the sea you can't take the sky from me"
"hi chitsa,i'm curious as to your views on the introduction of the new citadel structures for replacing poses (as currently iterated by ccp), and what impact you think that they'll have on wh life."
"i am optimistically cautious about citadels in w-space. mechanics of citadels are still in flux so they can make our lives easier as well as break our game-play. as far as replacing poses that is the plan i would assume. it is obvious that citadels will have huge impact on gameplay. as csm i would try my best to make citadel mechanics in w-space as fun and useful as possible. the impact itself will really depend on iterations to already announced mechanics.burn the land and boil the sea you can't take the sky from me"
"i never advocated for less kspace connections in wspace. one of my favorite things to do is to roam null sec connections. i was very sad when ccp decided to decrease null sec connections in c5 wormholes. it is obvious that pl has abused mechanic to maximum so thats why ccp has changed it, still that change made a lot of people sad. burn the land and boil the sea you can't take the sky from me"
"honestly it was a bad plan. **** happens, bad plans fail. i still do a lot of other things in eve, for example i do magic gate npsi roams to null sec. burn the land and boil the sea you can't take the sky from me"
"great to hear your running again. i have know chitsa for 3 years now, he's crazy, great fc when drunk and drops caps regardless. his past csm work fixed alot for wormholes like sma's, wormhole spawns and setup for a lot what corbexx worked on. i think anyone in the next csm will have a hard time to have any influence on citadels before it comes out as it will proberly be out before fanfest. so my question to chista is what do you think will be the big thing to effect wormhole space that ccp hasn't talked about."
"are you high son?"
"first time posting to the forums lurking from afar, however i wanted to go ahead and ask a few questions, if you don't mind. you mention that you would like to be the advocate for disabled players, however you seem to not even be very active within the community itself. i'm not trying to disregard your difficulties of course, this is on the community viewpoint. i do agree that accessibility is more thrown under the bus because it really does lack representation. this year however, we also have joffy and erika. those two are also far more active within the community.with that said; how do you see yourself being an advocate for the disabled players?"
"with respect, discussing the man campaigning is just as important and \"on topic\" as discussing the words he writes, you still don't seem to understand that your campaign is about you just as much as your platform.ultimately the words you write are worthless if we don't know enough about you as a person and as a candidate."
"the feeling is mutual."
"some would contend that there is nothing intrinsically wrong with the csm process, but much like every other facet in the game, it has simply been over gamed by powers that be. what would you say to the idea that the csm itself does not need reform, rather the spate of player dissatisfaction and seats basically being handed out to large alliances is entirely a player made issue? be specific, you have been very hand wavy and incredibly vague in your posts so far; is it the election process, or is it the way the council works that is a problem?"
"there's only one way a gsf member gets elected to csm: by the grace of ballot positioning. he can afford to be hand wavy & vague because your vote doesn't matter."
"do you have a specific question about my platform? i am not going to argue if the csm needs reform. all systems capable of growth need reform over time."
"yes. what is your platform? what specifically is wrong that needs reforming, and what do you propose to do about it given the limited role the csm has?also, do you not find it ironic that a goon shill has basically highlighted one of the major issues with the csm, yet you stand to benefit from it? can anyone that goons vote for, or is in cahoots with goons, actually represent 'reform' in anyway? this is akin to drinking for sobriety."
"+1though i have seen way too many good people win csm then stop playing when their term was done."
"promise not to run off and join goons if you get elected?"
"ooh the burn ...would it help if i said i'd rather have noobman than someone from your corp?"
"sorry cant hear you with all that null between us also would it help if i agreed with you?"
"active player in multiple areas of the game, fc and content creator - this is the kind of csm candidates we need.we may not have agreed on everything during our time in wormhole space, but i trust you'll work for the greater good for everyone +1"
"you misunderstand my questions, if your reply was directed at me in some manner. i wish to know if he is willing to sit down an evening with a c1 industrial corp and discuss the aspects of pi and industry in wormholespace, or how citadels will affect small groups in a c3 who only pve. or how changes to rorqual will affect a mining corp living in a c2. i wish to know if he has a desire and willingness to represent and understand all of wormholespace or just the niche he has experience from. or if he will be like former fc csm's who think they know everything and are always right. i have no issue with promoting his candidacy if he wish to represent the broad group of pilots in wspace. but if he doesnt have a desire to look beyond his limited experience then i am more unsure. these are important questions about his attitude that matters for a lot of people so i hope he takes the time to answer them."
"the truth is i've only ever lived in c5 and c6 space. as far as c4 and below, months ago when i decided i wanted to run for csm and i talked about it with a few wh'lers, they asked me the same exact questions \"i wish to know if he has a desire and willingness to represent and understand all of wormholespace or just the niche he has experience from\". i've made a point to learn more about life in c4 in below since then. i read wh'ler blogs, i listen to podcast, i read over everything said in the diplo channels. unfortunately there is not as much media coverage that i've found for the lower class holes in terms of wars. aar style battle reports, fleet fighting videos ect to learn from. so if you have a site or i'm missing i would love to educate myself more.but from perception i've noticed over the past months c4's love thier dual statics (something i asked for in the wormhole eveo forums), lower class residents still love thier pos bashes with subcaps. they love the added nullsec data/relics. quite a few corps joined the safety of an alliance spread across multiple holes eventually ballooning to like 700-800 members. that alliance shattered because of cultural disagreements? as far as population, in my opinion there are more growing corps in c4 and below than in c5-c6. probably do to not having roaming russian dread gangs evicting people every week.i'm really curious if lower class residents are going to want to try c5-c6 space when they can live out of medium citadels and have 3 hour per week vulnerability windows, something they can set so that its not in russian time zones. i'm extremely excited to see the population of w-space in all classes increase with citadels being available.as far as the hermits that live in w-space that do not enjoy pvp and only enjoy mining and data/relic sites and exploration, if they have feedback that they want me to convey to ccp i encourage them to open a chat with me. good ideas can come from anywhere, i'm not going to discount someone's feedback just because i spend my personal time in w-space a different way."
"noob is a good man for a wormholer... he has my vote."
"c)income availability.this is one of the single biggest messes in the game right now. not even kidding! this really goes back to what i was harking to last year, so i'll just do a crude repost to frame it, as nothing has really changed. if anything, it has gotten much worse....and i pretty much stand by this entirely. income is pigeon holed too narrowly into activities that require alts, know how, large sp pools, or cow-towing to an all powerful hand of sov (point f). level 4s in hs create a minimal amount of player content, incursions create almost zero player content and severely tilt the equilibrium of risk/reward. fw is a game of alts where the goal is to unlock pve missions - this is bad. sov anomalies create some content, so they are lower on the list, but this requires people either have alts in a large coalition, or crimp their play style to be inflected by sov. l5s require excessive know-how and local dominance. basically...put income where players actually want to live, and make it appropriate for the risks for that security band. some npc null has really good income streams, but its locked behind standings (alts) and know how; people crave living in npc null, let people play the way they want to.another point this raises is that one of the reasons sov is a failed enterprise is because...well sov is only functioning when it is a safe place to farm, and if anything is safe in this game, it has failed first principles. people go to make cash in sov as it is so absurdly safe; that is what sov is for these days, and anything that is purposed for a reason in a sandbox is just....needs revision. it doesn't promote any actual conflict as conflict on those scales and distances is a tenuous proposition in a post-phoebe world, with the whole lack of motivation wrapped up in there as well.look at tishu or oss. or any other small, fun alliance in the game. they create a ton of content for as little support as they have, most members have alts to make their isk for them some where else, as there certainly isn't any money to be made in syndicate. however, syndicate is the only type of region that has enough entities close enough to each other to meaningfully shoot at each other; happens in lowsec too, but sov null is just too vast to ever really see much consistent conflict. what i'm saying is it's dumb to hand over all the keys to new players, and new player retention (read: income, stable, reliable, accessible, point f) in the form of anomalies to sov holders and sov empires when by and large, there are so many play styles that would appeal and retain players in non-sov regions, if only there were a way for it to be viable to live there."
"jade constantine alt c/d?<3 vic"
"hello friendstoday i feel like it's a good day to announce that i am going to run for csm xi. i hope that i can get a full term this time after doing two half terms getting in after other people drop out.i am gorski car a solo/small gang pvper that has been playing eve for a long time. my first character is from 2004. at the moment i am a writer for crossing zebras. you can find all my articles here:"
"gorski for president. on behalf of bsb i hope you win and remove cancermeta thx."
"fc what do!?"
"vote citizen"
"why vote for someone else who will just drop out halfway through the term, promoting gorski. skip the middleman, go straight to gorski!"
"easily voting for you. if anything just because you deserve a full term!"
"got my vote just for that"
"easily one of the most competent csm members to ever sit on the council when it comes to actual hands-on eve. also easily worth my vote and yours. with both gorski and apothne on the csm i feel we would have a solid base of expert knowledge when it comes to pvp mechanics for solo, small gang and fleet.vote .moira corp | villore accords | gallente militia | lowlife on crossing zebras | @niden_gmva"
"what are you feelings regarding small artillery vs autocannon powergrid requirements? and by extension, the imbalance caused by the svipul having excess pg available for autocannon fits (which can be devoted to, for example, huge amounts of tank and double neuts)?"
"that's exactly the reason that the svipul can't be balanced atm. you need insane pg to fit arties and then you get super tanky ac fits on the svipul"
"that subreddit is a cesspool, that's not really something to be proud of, gorski."
"i disagree. i feel like it is doing a better job then the eveo forums at being a place for the community. no censorship bruh"
"got my vote!"
"neat"
"so you're fine with swastika flairs, 50 simultaneous threads about avocados and guacamole, memes (eg: ur g-- pwned), job postings, clickbait, and vote brigadeing... despite most of this being against the subreddit (or reddit) rules? okay then."
"we as the moderator team does our best of keeping the bad stuff out but it is a hard work for a small team. comments are also mostly unmoderated and there is no way we can prove vote brigadeing but when we do get proof of its handled. i wish people would actually use the report and hide buttons more on r/eve they make our job way easier."
"gorski, always the bridesmaid."
"evidently thinks solo pvp is something to be done at ridiculous range for some reason (probably cowardice) but really nice dude with a solid understanding of the game, who i know will represent us all very well!"
"gorski, if we vote for you what kind of things are you hoping to accomplish for us small gang/solo pvp pilots? at least what are you going to push for to help our meta out?"
"bring back aoe doomsdays."
"lex actually logs in, plays the game, and is a general fun-haver, thus should rank very high on anyone's list of candidates to vote for."
"citadels are going to be iterated upon which means they gonna change according to player needs.it is really hard to speculate on the future changes which i do not know about. i think ccp thinks that wspace is kinda in the right place and better not to mess it up. so instead of big changes we will see small improvements. burn the land and boil the sea you can't take the sky from me"
":\"
"+1good eve player"
"so voting for the people that you want to see on the csm is the major issue with the csm? down with democracy! also i seem to recall sion representing reform quite well.edit: you really need to look up the definition of a shill."
"i do not represent goons and the imperium is not a representation of me or my values.i am an individual who has been trumpeting the cause for csm reform for at least 2 years. the imperium is a hegemony, they have absolutely no say in what i do in eve or on the csm.the imperium does however, have a vested interest in my success as a reform candidate; as does any eve player who want's eve to thrive. you have to realize that some issues are more important than flags and social clans. i was a reform candidate long before i was invited to join the imperium. if you are somehow sour that a group you dislike in eve was forward thinking enough to put their ego aside for the greater good than i don't think i can help you.if you are concerned that my membership in the imperium put's my objectivity at risk, don't be. brutal, unshakable honesty and integrity is kind of my gimmick. this is a truth that you may not have come to realize yet but others have and that is why despite any differences they may have with me, they support me."
"you still haven't done more than drop a few buzzwords here. reform, reform, reform...what exactly do you even mean by that? what are the specific problems you see, etc? i have been asking for a few posts now and you still haven't given me one example of an actual aspect you want to see changed, and why it needs to be addressed. you are literally trying to sell a product to people without telling them what it is. at this point i have literally put more about reforming the csm into my thread and i'm not even running on that as a thing. part of being a csm is communication, both with devs and with players; can you communicate what you mean by reform? i am curious to know. the overwhelming majority of the time, the imperium's interests are completely contrary to most eve players, even the ones in the imperium. care to explain why you feel you can serve both these interests; those who want a fun game for all, and those who want complete control over both players and resources for their own nefarious purposes?"
"i disagree, sir. the imperium's interests revolve around keeping eve online alive. some of us have been playing since beta, we enjoy the game and we enjoy having a goon home that is successful. keeping eve out of the crapper is exactly what we stand for and yes, we are a bit nationalistic about our organization. we don't have to do anything on the csm to win at this game. the sooner you get that, the sooner you understand us. we can work with any game mechanic. we've done so for years. influencing that is not what the csm is about. the csm is about getting the real-use scenarios into ccp's hands and elaborately describing why the mechanic is bad for the player. bad for the player, not one particular organization. you may remember that we successfully argued for the technetium nerf. we controlled all of the tech at that time through otec. you need to remember why the csm exists in the first place. it's to keep ccp informed and honest. the csm was born through scandal, it was never about giving you the voice, but rather to give them a solution to a very angry playerbase. if you don't give them accurate information and analysis, they will have to play their own game and next thing you know, someone will be setting on some rare unobtainable materials...xenuria is perfect for the csm and i support him 110%. he can order the chaos, he can keep people on track. and no one can truly answer the reform question yet. we, as players, know it's broken, but we don't know how many ways it's broken or what it truly takes to fix it. if anyone knew that, it would be fixed already. we need to send a mind that is suited to ordering chaos. this is why i think xenuria can do the job and why he has my votes. where other goons will tell you that your votes don't matter, i will tell you the opposite. we can only unite as players to fix ccp and keep eve alive. your votes do count and use them wisely. send xenuria to iceland if you want to keep playing this game."
"not the candidate, but as someone relatively knowledgeable wrt w-space, i'd say that w-space in general is actually in a pretty good spot, aside from a large russian carebear coalition being in control of all of the best c6 space.most wormhole players, as far as i am aware, are content with the content available in w-space and would much rather ccp leave w-space well enough alone.also, in regards to the topic at hand, i support xenuria's csm campaign both for his desire to reform the csm to be more effective a tool for ccp and players alike, as well as his desire for nicer shoes and some goddamn headgear in eve."
"vic jefferson, a true candidate for the people of eve!"
"+1really knowledgeable, passionate, and nice guy."
"hello everyone,friends and foes alike.as you very well know i'm bradford clear. i am the alliance executor of p-nah, or it must be jelly cause jam don't shake. a c4 corporation.im announcing my running for xi csm. :dto start with i began my career as a null sec bear that used drakes and talos's with lazors to fiend off foes because talos's can kick butt with lazors don't you know! i did the overall mining campaign in the beginning of 2012 with some close real life friends.not only did i dable in mining but i did some pve and ventured into wormholes as well as did missions to supply my income the first year in eve. with my mining passion at first i began to realize pvp was pretty awesome and moved too a c5 static c2 with a small 20 man corp, and learned how to do escalations around 2012. i learned the way of the bear, and realized how easy it was to make isk in the game.at the ending of 2012 i realized i wanted more and to become a good fc as well as wanted to join a community that was full of support. not only for eve stuff but for your friends that you make during the game you play.in 2013 i was approached by the \"great\" pell helix, of his time he was a great leader and a decent ceo for the surely you're joking alliance. i soon joined with my corp which at the time had 10 active members and we slowly merged into the greater bit of things. i learned all my skills in pvp as well as pve in the greater aspect of things in the c6 we deemed bastion. overall a great learning experience for a nooby player at the time. late 2013 i was basically promoted two third in charge and pell went afk, and another member aka sai talos, and a couple others helped run syj while pell was on a burn out spree. we took this time to build and prosper the alliance into a great place for new and old members to grow and learn and have a great atmosphere.currently, i live in a c4/c4/c2 wolf/rayet , and find content on the daily. i've managed poses, ran the alliance, fcd, and done pretty much everything possibel to contribute to the success or continual success of the old syj and p-nahsome intriguing facts / platform for runningi've lived in low sec/joined pl in the past year. had a great time in both places. loved collapsed out as well as pl's fun atmosphere.i've lived in every known wormhole and have taught myself how to pve and do pi in every single one. i understand the mechanics, and have massive knowledge on game play in wspace.i personally want the spawn rate of kspace wormholes especially null secs in particular to be looked into.dual static wormholes in higher class systems. ie a c5/c6 with a null/low sec static wouldn't be a bad compromise for pvp and content.i would also make sure capital changes and the pve mechanics got changed in a proper manner. meaning that there would be some shake ups but in the proper fashion nothing to drastic, but enough to keep it to where everyone can roll for content.some great things about me is that im 22 years old; work at a call center full time and am a health science administration major. i play some basketball here and there and im very outgoing in life.go ahead and post concerns below and ill address/update as i go along my campaign.eve mail/pm me in game for concerns and i can answer them as long as im not busy at work.and as always fly safe o77join : bradford's 3rd party channel for all third party services, and check out my thread."
"deleted"
"gorski,you have my vote. our candidate will enjoy his time in iceland with you. may you both have great luck turning the csm around. keep up the great work in /r/eve. it's enjoyable and informative and i often consult reddit before ccp these days."
"reasonable censorship is not a bad thing. refer to reddit for a good example of why reasonable censorship is good.apart from that i've heard that you're good at this csm thing & i will probably vote for you as dictated by the imperium ballot list."
"i wonder how serious this post is considering the current state of me and sions relationship after me taking most of the blame for how the reddit hivemind retaliated against him. but i am sure we can manage irl and have a good time and some productive/awkward meetings with ccp. as for the r/eve comment. it totally depends on what you need information on. certain things i would not trust r/eve at all. thanks for the comment though we in the mod team do as best of a work we can but it is def a unappreciated job where you get a lot of **** herding nerds. but it is a hard job given the tools we get."
"i know it's idealistic of me and not exactly in a perfect state atm but reddit is supposed to be self moderated. the problem arises with upvote squads you have 0 way to prove as a moderator and people hiveminding/circlejerking and upvoting certain stuff. we as the moderator team could go in and moderate harder in the comments but it would require way more time then we have. automoderator is decently trained to catch the worst of the worst but things sometime slip through. in the end i am not even a head moderator on r/eve. i am not the top dog and can't make sweeping changes like this. i get a lot of the grr gorski removed my post bullshit for some reason even when it's not me."
"i consider it a sincere comment although i would hate to think that you would leverage your position as moderator to score political points on my friend. i'm almost sure that's not what happened as there is no way you could be as opportunistic as someone like mitt romney, who is pretty well known for using friends for political points. i do feel strongly about sion's well-being so i assume you learned some things about crowd control and can take that experience with you to the csm. one cannot learn valuable lessons without making mistakes.in addition to handing you my votes, i am indeed supporting xenuria's run. i've come to admire him since he's been with us and he has a mind that is well suited to making order out of chaos. i'm actually quite giddy because you have no idea how bad it sucks when routines or structures get broken. chaos. xenuria knows these things very well and better yet , he can cope with it. there is nothing more chaotic than ccp. this year will be the year that rectifies everything. i believe it."
"you cannot be ******* serious"
"x.x"
"im still waiting for your questions bronya.. burn the land and boil the sea you can't take the sky from me"
"you only get my vote if you make a frigate only roam and stream it ;)"
"clearly you must have just resubbed to this game..... russian carebear coalition??? whatever. the only thing that even keeps russians living in w-space is the tz. no one likes shooting towers after dt.the only true statement you said in your post. \"...xenuria...[is an] effective tool....\"honestly, if you want a slobbering idiot sitting on the csm \"representing\" us.... then a vote for xenuria is the choice. i honestly can't wait for when xenuria decides to make the rounds and does interviews. pure gold."
"our slobbering idiot is more trustworthy than your slobbery idiot. oh, where did your slobbering idiot go?oh that's right.spy."
"think of the children, vote xenuria."
"bobmon yes!"
"this man knows a good bobmon from a bob-wrongalso...can you tell eveli how terrible minny supers/titans arekkthxbai bobmon for csm"
"thank you sibellus!i think you bring a fantastic opportunity to reach out to our slavic friends. let me take this opportunity to say in your own words the folllowing<U+043E>!<U+043D> <U+044D><U+043E><U+043C> <U+043E><U+043C> <U+044C> , <U+043A><U+043E> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043F><U+044B><U+044F> <U+043E><U+043E><U+044C>  <U+043C>, <U+043E><U+043D> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043F><U+044B><U+044E><U+044F><U+043E><U+044C>  <U+043F><U+043E><U+043B><U+043C><U+043C>, <U+043A><U+043E><U+043E><U+044B>  <U+043D> <U+043E><U+043B><U+043D><U+044E> - <U+043E><U+043D>  <U+043E><U+043D><U+043D><U+043E> <U+043D> <U+043D><U+044E>!<U+043C><U+043D><U+044F> <U+043E> wyld,  <U+044F> <U+043F><U+043B><U+044E> <U+043C> <U+043A><U+043D>, <U+043A><U+043E><U+043E><U+044B> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043B> <U+043B><U+044B> <U+043D><U+043E> <U+043D><U+043A>-<U+043F>. <U+044F> <U+043F><U+043B><U+044E> <U+043C> <U+043B><U+044C><U+043D><U+044B>, <U+043F><U+043E><U+043F><U+044B> <U+043E><U+043B><U+043E>  <U+044D><U+043E><U+043C> <U+043C><U+043E><U+043D><U+043B><U+044C><U+043D><U+043E>.<U+043B><U+043A><U+043E><U+043C> <U+043E><U+043B><U+043E> <U+043B> <U+043B><U+044F><U+043D><U+043A> <U+043E><U+043A><U+043E> <U+043E><U+043B><U+044C>  <U+043D>. <U+044F> <U+043B><U+044B><U+043B> ! <U+043C><U+044B> <U+043B><U+044B><U+043C> !<U+044F> <U+043E> <U+043E><U+044F><U+044C>  <U+043C>! <U+044F> <U+043E> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043A><U+044C> <U+043E><U+043B> <U+043B><U+044B><U+043C> <U+043E><U+043A><U+043C>, <U+043E> <U+043C>,<U+043F><U+043E> <U+043D><U+043C><U+043D><U+043C> <U+043E><U+044A><U+043D><U+043D><U+043D><U+043E><U+043E>, <U+043B><U+043D><U+043D><U+043E><U+043E> <U+043D><U+043E><U+043E><U+043E> <U+044D><U+043C> <U+043C><U+044B> <U+043C><U+043E><U+043C> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043E><U+044C> <U+043E>-<U+043E> <U+043E><U+043B><U+044C><U+043E>  <U+043B><U+043E>!<U+044F> <U+043E><U+044E>  <U+043E><U+044A><U+043D><U+043D><U+043D><U+044B> <U+043D><U+043E><U+044B> <U+044D><U+043C>!<U+043D><U+043E> <U+043C><U+043E> <U+043B><U+043D><U+043E>, <U+044F> <U+043E> <U+043E> <U+044B> <U+044B> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043D><U+043B><U+044C> <U+043A><U+043E> <U+043C><U+043D>  <U+043C><U+043E><U+043C> <U+043D>\"<U+043B><U+043A><U+043E><U+043E><U+043B><U+044C> <U+043B><U+044F> <U+043E><U+043A><U+043E>\"! <U+044F> <U+043E> <U+043E><U+044B> <U+044B> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043B> <U+043C><U+043D><U+044F>  <U+044D> <U+044B><U+043E>,<U+043A><U+043A> <U+043D><U+043D><U+043D><U+043E><U+043E> <U+043A><U+043D>, <U+043A><U+043E><U+043E><U+044B> <U+043C><U+043E> <U+043E><U+044C> <U+043F><U+044C> <U+043E><U+043B><U+044C>,  <U+043E><U+043E> <U+043E><U+044F><U+044C><U+043D> <U+043E><U+043B><U+044C><U+043D><U+044B><U+043C> <U+043A><U+043F><U+043B><U+043A><U+043C> <U+043D><U+044C><U+044F><U+043C>.   <U+044C> <U+043E><U+043B><U+044C><U+043E> <U+044B><U+043E> <U+043E><U+043A><U+043E><U+043D> <U+043F><U+043E><U+044E> csm, <U+043D><U+043E> <U+043E><U+044C> <U+043E><U+043D>  <U+043D> <U+043B>  <U+043B><U+043A><U+043E><U+043E><U+043B><U+044C><U+043D><U+044B> <U+044B>  <U+043E>?<U+043E>, <U+044F> <U+043F><U+043E>  <U+043E><U+044F><U+044C> <U+043E> <U+043C><U+043D><U+043E>, <U+043F><U+044C> <U+043E> <U+043C><U+043D><U+043E>,   <U+043A><U+043E><U+043D>, <U+043C><U+044B> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043A><U+043C><U+043C> <U+043B> <U+043D><U+043E><U+044F><U+043E> <U+043E><U+043B><U+043E> <U+043E><U+043A>!<U+043E><U+043B><U+043E>  wyld' <U+044D><U+043E> <U+043E><U+043B><U+043E>  !you have alot of choices citizens for your csm, but a vote a vote for wyld is a vote for you and literally me..."
"i can't speak for noob but as an hk member i think we're all confident in our ability to adapt to changes, and most anything that brings more people to wspace for pvp would be welcomed by us."
"noobman is a good person who has helped explain the intricacies of w-space stuff to relative newbies. he's a good choice."
"my name is harry saq and i have been playing eve on and off since the game was first released. i have quit and renewed my accounts for similar reasons most do (mix of rl and just grrrrr eve), and have a special place in my heart/excelspreadsheets for this wonderfully frustrating mmo. the thing that has always intrigued me, and continually brought me back was the enormous potential this game has. the reasons i have left and disavowed all loyalty externally was for that potential being squandered (not necessarily intentionally or maliciously).in other words, i have been through the cycles of love and hate, and made all the mental proclamations and conspiracy claims imaginable to account for the greatness and shortcomings of this game similar to what i am sure most seasoned and even new players have. so instead of offering a litany of nuanced stratagems or wild fantastical hopes and dreams i might have for this that or the other thing this game could do, i would rather like to offer my services as a player facilitator and advocate for quality game change, that focuses on a better experience for us all.eve is only a game, however it is a game that dares to throw us all in one universe and offer us the tools to both shape the places we reside, as well as hang ourselves most embarrassingly and painfully. over the lifespan of eve ccp has taken many funky steps in various directions to do everything and nothing in an attempt to both commercialize their product to a broader customer base and fulfill all of our wacky idiosyncratic desires (and theirs as well...and some of their desires are kind of scary). of all that has been said about ccp, it cannot be said that they haven't produced something worthy of attention, and as of late, it can also not be ignored that they are starting to grasp how to actually release the potential this game so promises, through incremental change.i have seen several topics over the effectiveness and use of the csm, and i feel some of the more recent trains of thought simply miss the point. any change process has a development life cycle, and alot of the time catalysts to change are incredibly subtle in their origin and sources of influence. some see the csm's place in that lifecycle as the final check box in approving some upcoming release, or an entity that must be listened to during backroom talks and strategy meetings. some have even lamented over their influence being overshadowed by bloggers and popular websites. regardless of any stated purpose or intended role the csm has, implementation of any process always settles into places not planned due to human factors, both in usefulness of those involved and how their messages are carried.the csm has been around for awhile, and quite frankly is only as effective, active and useful as those in it. what i plan to bring to the csm, if elected, is an active reasoned/rational voice whose agenda is to facilitate the change process so that the game remains challenging, engaging, and worth logging into (regardless if my personal preferences are catered to or not). the csm is as useful as we make it. if we are not included in the conversation, than we must be proactive in seeking out and engaging in the conversations that matter. so rather than lament whether i am being listened to, or whether a release was approved by a council i am on, i will seek to actively represent the player base by presenting the perspective of those that play when the opportunity is there, and creating that opportunity in as many ways as possible.in other words, both the player base and ccp have unique and sometimes conflicting perspectives and motives that need to be navigated through in order to make a product that continues to capture the imaginations of those that play while drawing in many more new peeps to play with!this is the same speech i gave last year, and i don't think anything has changed and the current questions surrounding the usefulness of the csm are just variations on the same theme. it's time for the powerbloc agitating self interest candidates to go, and short of that, they should atleast be balanced with those that are interested in mechanics and game design, vs meta-talk and good'ol day syndrome narrative. i am amazed at how little value some csm members put in having direct comms with devs, and fail to see that those interactions have a long term affect.if csm members can't comprehend the value of that direct line to devs and potential influence, nor have the ability to exercise it in a meaningful way, then they absolutely need to go. the change you can bring won't be evident, it's not about a specific change or a single agenda item getting accomplished, but rather that reasoned voice helping guide devs in a way you won't ever realize. the point is to be a sounding board, a sanity check, and in some instances a first line reaction guinea pig. the change csm members affect are on the aggregate and it utterly misses the point to be a space union or advocacy brigade.you don't know what is in the heads of devs, and maybe they don't action anything you provide them directly, but most likely your arguments affected their overarching viewpoint (if presented well or reasonably) and the dev is simply powerless or not able to address any of what makes sense right now the idea is to get that bug in their head, to interject that other perspective so that when they are implementing change they control, they might just utilize your reason and arguments on something totally different.the csm has value and can be effective. csm members must communicate the player perspective when it comes to overall mechanics and what paying/playing consumers actually want to shell out real cash for when purchasing ccps goods and services. ccps has to pay the bills and we want to get value for our buck. that is why i am running for csm xi as an outsider (i.e. not a powerbloc space teamster wannabe)."
"hey-o,i'm nikolai agnon, an officer from dirt 'n' glitter - eve's premier amarr lowsec fw corporation. i aim to apply my knowledge and experience of both factional warfare and lowsec in general to csm xi this year. in addition to my exploits in lowsec, i have spent time in sov-null both in the cfc (via fweddit back in the day) and in test. i run two separate hisec carebear corps, one involved in industry and wormholes, and another dedicated to missions and mining. i<U+FFFD>ve always gravitated towards leadership roles as i<U+FFFD>m always looking for more ways to help other players better enjoy the game. currently i'm the second-in-command of one of the largest alliances in the amarr militia, local is primary. of course, i will step down as if i even reach the ballot - i<U+FFFD>m fully aware of how time-intensive this csm job is, and i have no delusions of running an alliance simultaneously.lowsec space has not recently seen strong enough representation on the csm panel (aside from sugar's amazing work), and i aim to help remedy the situation. although my primary goal is to improve fw mechanics, i further aim to improve all of lowsec, which would include drastic lifeblood updates for non-fw space. i campaign for modernization of fw, improvements to small-gang gameplay and lifestyle, balance passes to hisec and lowsec risk-vs-reward, and additional opportunities for third-party development.a brief clarification of my main campaign points, before i go into extensive detail (please see the follow-up posts):fw needs attention. as one of the largest content drivers in the game, it deserves modernization updates - and more than mere band-aids to the l4 missions. the front lines should be more explosive and dynamic, and the infamous 'semi-afk stabbed farming' in backwater systems should have little to no impact on the warzone for either side. i also want to see empires providing support towards corps and alliances active in their respective militia. smaller gangs of players should have even more opportunities to thrive and be meaningful in lowsec. similarly, the critical mass of lowsec alliances should be significantly smaller than where it is currently. alliances large enough to currently control multiple regions' worth of resources should be straining themselves not to set sail for null instead of happily sitting atop an almost-incontestable lowsec moon empire. the more spread out an empire is, the easier it should be to interfere with their operations. lowsec should be more attractive for hisec bears to operate in. there's plenty of talk about \"fixing\" high-sec with solutions ranging from bizarre to unhelpful, however i'd prefer solutions to involve incentivizing primarily-hisec players to move towards isk making in more dangerous territory. this includes ratting, missioning, marketeering, industry, and (yes) mining. this will have the side effect of populating non-fw regions of lowsec, as well as opening new and exciting venues for pve vs pvp player interaction (old-school piracy, ahoy!). more api endpoints for all of the above. i'm a huge api/spreadsheet nerd, and i want to see even more information available to data analysts. in addition to the changes to lowsec, i also want more and improved tools available to 3rd party developers like zkillboard, pirate's little helper, evemon, and dotlan. my interest in lowsec is to keep the entire ecosystem healthy, not just the parts most beneficial to my militia or even my warzone. all the changes that i will bring up as a csm delegate will be slated towards the sandbox as a whole, not just to the amarr militia. i<U+FFFD>ve always taken on logistical or analytical roles in eve, trying to find the right balance between differing opinions to find what<U+FFFD>s most efficient, newbro-friendly, or just plain fun, and i hope to apply this experience towards bettering everything that lowsec is designed to be. i ask that you vote for me this election season, so that faction warfare and lowsec in general might have a candidate on csm xi who advocates for a more vibrant and exciting sandbox environment. please read on below, where i have gone through extensive detail outlining my goals and visions that i<U+FFFD>d like your help in bringing to eve online.tl;dr : extensive updates to factional warfare allow small groups to build their own castles in lowsec encourage more lowsec activities, especially in non-fw space more api / crest tools for third-party developers free small horses disclaimer: i'm fully aware that quite possibly nothing i'm campaigning for may even see a discussion if i'm elected. the details i provide are examples of what i would suggest at a round-table for improvements, and to give an idea of the sort of vision i have for lowsec's atmosphere in the balance of eve. that said, a fw update is in the works to come soon(tm), and i hope to help in that discussion."
"updates to factional warfarethe current system has been around since 2012. that's coming up to almost being as old as eve dominion! the current system ihub upgrades are worth even less now than they were four years ago, with their only real purpose today being their involvement in the archaic fw tier system, which ought to be revamped, if not removed entirely. these effects have also always applied to the benefit of all hostiles and unaffiliated neutral parties, which makes no sense.updating system capture mechanicsmeanwhile, the underlying mechanics in fw use almost the exact same mechanics as they did four years ago, despite numerous tech updates and balance passes. the dust interaction leaves much to be desired for a cross-game tie-in, and could use an update. undefended systems still require an approximate minimum of 48 hours to flip, and plexing payouts being coupled with the tier system drastically punishes the defending side. constellation control is a hella rad idea that made its way into aegis-sov, but it would make just as much, if not more sense in the back-and-forth tug of war in fw space. owning a constellation or region should make defending it much easier, yet with citadels around the corner, one of the few remaining balancing factors is about to become irrelevant.in order to address these issues, i would immediately seek conference with team space glitter (yes, that<U+FFFD>s actually their name!) to promote the following changes in a coming-due fw overhaul: remove systemwide ihub-upgrade bonuses to neutrals. introduce system indexes based on ihub level, duration of ownership, and by-count system ownership in the constellation. shorten deplex timers for systems with higher system indexes, to a peak rate of 40% shorter timers (novices would take 6 minutes in a completely fortified system). reduce each system<U+FFFD>s overall vp from ~3000 to a flat 2000, to balance the shorter deplex timers with needing fewer oplexes to flip undefended systems, and to make individual plex captures feel more meaningful. change the dust modifier to adjust vp-per-plex instead of total system vp, so that the modifier always plays a factor, instead of being completely irrelevant unless the system is nearing vulnerability. change the deplex lp formula from [plexvalue * contestation * 75%] to [plexvalue * ceiling(10%, contestation)] for contested systems. deplexing systems at 90% shouldn<U+FFFD>t be penalized by a further 25% reduction in payout, while players should receive more than 10 lp for helping re-stabilize a 1% system. decouple the tier system from plex capture payouts. plexing in tier 1 is beyond painful for any militia, and the current system heavily encourages the semi-afk, often-stabbed farming on alts that give fw such a nasty reputation. more carrot, less stick: benefits for serving an empiremoving on to quality of life improvements and reasons to continue fighting for an empire, i aim to remedy the disparity between the massive drawbacks and minimal benefits that come with allegiance to an empire. i'll never be able to enter minmatar hisec again in my life - and while that's perfectly fine by me, it should follow that the amarr empire would offer some assistance in my fight against their enemies and against neutral interlopers, as should the other empires for their respective militias. there are incredibly few rewards to make up for the penalties that faction warfare players receive, which leads to a high <U+FFFD>graduation rate<U+FFFD> amongst older players. why keep fighting only one side of the war, if you could go pirate, gain access to more space, be free from the danger of eviction, and gain even more targets to shoot at?to address this playstyle retention issue, i propose the following <U+FFFD>empire-provided<U+FFFD> bonuses for groups: reduced fuel costs for structures in systems with high system indexes* shorter repair times for structures based on system index* reduced-cost asset safety* free repairs in militia-owned stations (ic24, tlf, cprot, fdu) stat recording for plex captures, whether by character sheet api or by public crest navy skins for t1 ships for that militia<U+FFFD>s race, usable freely but only while the pilot is actively enlisted and has a high enough rank granted by his militia (amarr navy capital skins for rank-10 divine commodores, for example) gate gun forgiveness in friendly systems (maybe) * given how powerful these upgrades would be, as well as the potential abuse of <U+FFFD>standings-shield<U+FFFD> corps, i additionally propose a massive drawback be that any structures anchored and/or owned by a militia-affiliated entity would forbid both docking rights and service access to non-affiliates. this would prevent neutrals from anchoring structures with a fw holding corp, then granting exclusive access to the main corp or alliance, and the structure being shielded by standings from attack by an entire militia whilst gaining all the free benefits of association. in other words, you can<U+FFFD>t shield your structures from and get the bonuses for being a part of a militia that you could otherwise aggress freely, even on the same grid.fw needs both updates to previously existing mechanics as well as new quality-of-life updates and incentives for sticking with fw rather than <U+FFFD>graduating<U+FFFD>. there has not been a true fw-oriented candidate on the csm in recent memory (grrski krab doesn<U+FFFD>t count), leaving any tweaks and changes to be advocated for by the few non-null-bloc candidates. as a csm member i plan to help bring excitement back to the fw scene."
"improvements to small-gang lifestylessmall, close-knit groups of players make lowsec great. corps with thirty to forty members total, up to small alliances with not many more than just a hundred or so members, are where players feel the most at home and where they have the most fun doing whatever it is they do. depending on the group, that might be elite micro-gang pvp like no points necessary, or in other cases it could be ownership of their own solar system (dbd / giant banana legion in kamela comes to mind, as does kings of lamaa). part of my campaign is to promote more opportunities for small groups to be able to show their occupancy.i'll recall a small example of how small groups can impact large ones, from a recent time in our fw warzone. my corporation is certainly on the larger side of lowsec corps, and i wouldn't call us a small group by any means. nevertheless, just four or five devoted individuals were able to significantly impact our access to the war. during a few weeks in early october there was a group camping the most convenient gate through which our home system would access the most heated parts of the region at the time. nothing too terribly fancy, just a simple gatecamp that would switch ship types, evade \"real fights\", and still blap dozens of frigates every day. their devotion and resilience meant even our gatecamp-clearing fleets had little success in the long run, so we ended up resorting to taking a longer path to reach the minmatar, which meant more time reshipping or in transit, which meant we were less effective at defending our systems at the time.i want to see more of this kind of behaviour in lowsec. small chunks of territorial ownership is super exciting - it's like a mini flag of ownership that you can plant in your own corner of the sandbox. it's not quite as grand as the looming sandcastles over in nullsec, but still, that little flag you planted is yours, and if anyone passes through your system, he ought to be quite aware of who its rightful owner is. whether it's gatecamping or a stationcamping or being elite pirates that lock down the systems they live in, small gangs and localized pirate groups are what really make lowsec feel alive and vibrant. i envision even more cases of this becoming apparent, and for there to be additional mechanics and options available, even moreso than simply on stations/gates and in anomalies.this brings me to the new, upcoming structures, which present powerful and exciting opportunities to reward groups that occupy (and protect) their space. it's also a perfect chance to balance how much lowsec space a single entity can sprawl around in before it reaches its critical mass. it should be infeasible for almost any alliance to quite easily defend three or more entire regions worth of resources in highly active and volatile space, preventing the locals from taking advantage of their systems' commodities (often in the form of moon goo and pi goods).similar to how a system's pocos are often a reflection of who \"owns\" a lowsec system, the local inhabitants, pirate or otherwise, should be able to leave their mark on their systems, and that includes taking ownership of valuable resources. unfortunately, pocos are usually expensive isk-sinks, as most pirates aren't in the pi business, and they require attention to industry that often doesn't fit their playstyles. meanwhile, moon goo is mostly inaccessible to smaller groups in its current state, as current structures are difficult to contest when the owner, perhaps eight or more jumps away, can bridge t3 fleets and triage onto. resource structures should be significantly easier to contest or interfere with if the owners aren<U+FFFD>t near your space. if you live in your system and can push other players out, you should be able to harvest its resources.and for when you can<U+FFFD>t simply evict the biggest fish in the pond, well, maybe it's time for us to see new toys with game designs similar to the mobile siphon units - possibly with variants that are invisible to dscan, and which might not give away the thief<U+FFFD>s identity.i love the impact that small groups have in space, and structures and resource-ownership are just a couple of the many ways to further improve and reward them. more about this in my next point..."
"hisec & lowsec: risk vs rewardfor the dangerous areas of lowsec to supposedly be highly profitable, there's very little pve that appeals to your average hisec bear. outside of tier-4/5 fw and level 5 missions, you can make better isk/hr in either hisec or nullsec by doing pretty much any form of pve when compared to lowsec. outside of fw territory, there's almost no appeal to lowsec industry, and in my entire eve career, i've only once seen a mining corp interested in operating in lowsec space (and even that was a short-lived adventure). lowsec has always been a fantastic source of pvp, however it's simply not lucrative in the slightest when compared to other spaces. income for most players comes from some form of pve (unless you station trade, sell plex, or loot more wrecks than i do). i would like to solve part of this problem by shifting the value from hisec pve to favor the same efforts but in more dangerous space. this would solve many of the problems caused by \"safe hisec\". rather than nerf the safety of hisec, i would much rather see players moving to lowsec to make their money, which is closer in line with the risk-vs-reward theme in eve. activities that can be run in multiple security bands should be significantly more lucrative the lower you go. having alts in nullsec might always be one of the best ways to make isk, but hisec incursions or missions should not be the de-facto alternative, and mining should gain a mentionable middleground.as it currently stands, the two fw warzones are undeniably the most volatile areas in lowsec. fw has players orbiting buttons, means players in space, means targets to shoot, means explosions and content. given this nature of fw, pvp entities will likely always gravitate towards these warzones. that being said, we should find ways to re-populate non-fw lowsec, and i propose making hisec activities more profitable when done in lowsec. pve in lowsec systems is already extremely risky, as people will hunt you down for running that site or mission. the rewards should be boosted as compensation. towards this, i propose the following updates: a rebalance of ore yields*, so that lowsec ores would yield closer to a 35-40% value increase over hisec ores, and produce higher quantities of the main four hisec minerals. right now the margin is only at ~21%, which is hardly worth the risks and downtime associated with hostiles passing through lowsec local. refining structures with bonuses to ore refining and industry costs compared to stations, with noticeably higher yields available in lowsec (of course, with the highest yields in upgraded sov-null). perhaps the current 4% from the intensive refining array could become an 6% increase, or 8% on non-compressed ores. manufacturing structures with rigs that can reduce manufacturing costs, but that are limited by the system<U+FFFD>s security. to reduce the distance for resource hauling, these would usually be desirable close to where minerals are bought or mined, which would lead to an increase in lowsec ship and module construction. hazard pay for agents who require pilots to work in lowsec systems. the missions are often the same as those in hisec, but with significantly more pvp risk associated. agents should reward this risk with a 2-3x increased payout (no changes being made to rat payouts). for reference, i believe mission agents currently reward between 40-60% of the ratting bounties, not counting blitzes, blockades, or when worlds collide.* this would be a perfect opportunity to see another focus group. admittedly, my experience directly with mining is a bit more recent than the rest of hisec pve.changes like these would pave the way for loose coalitions amongst pirates and tentative agreements between pirates and bears, in which one might gain via taxing the other for permission to operate in valuable belts or missionspaces. npc-null sees this fairly regularly, and even sov-null, where neighboring hostile alliances often form non-aggression or non-invasion pacts. again with code<U+FFFD>s mining permit business, we can see that players with vastly differing interests will create arrangements with each-other for mutual benefit (oftentimes as payment for operational safety).this already can and does exist in lowsec in some rare cases. when dng lived in egghelende (0.4sec), for a brief while a hisec mining corp paid us for mining rights in our system. similarly, a few jumps out s i l e n t. ran a mining business and owned a few valuable moons in a pocket system that they kept locked down, and they probably did a good deal more there than i<U+FFFD>m aware of. fw-space might never (or only rarely) see this activity, as fits for it being a heated warzone, but more interactions along these lines will bring more life and activity to non-fw lowsec.while it<U+FFFD>s up to players to develop these social interactions, i hope to update the lowsec environment so the interest is more favorable than it is now for the bears, that such interactions might become a more commonplace activity. miners and missioners pairing up with pirates for protection would be a dream come true.more bears in lowsec means more players in dangerous space. by incentivizing lowsec variants of similar activities available in hisec, non-fw space will see more players, actual piracy may see a return (not simply mere nbsi criminals), we can move towards a more balanced hisec, and, ultimately, there will be more targets for us to shoot at.fun fact: public hauling contracts create one of the few forms of pve-pvp interaction other than belt-ratting that scales extremely well through all security bands. i didn<U+FFFD>t mention this activity above, but my proposals would lead to an even greater logistical demand to, from, and throughout dangerous space."
"additional endpoints for third party developingas i mentioned earlier, i'm a huge spreadsheet and api nerd. when i was one month old in eve i was cruising through c2 wormholes shooting sleepers, and i started building spreadsheets to calculate which wormhole gasses were worth the most isk/hr to harvest. this continued on to lowsec gasses and eventually to process which boosters were the most profitable and how much a batch run would cost in various materials. moving on, for dng i've written a fw warzone-intel bot as well as a fw-plex counting program that our members love. i've made spreadsheets for pi and all scales of industry (t1, t2, t3d/c, capitals, boosters), as well as a spreadsheet-based xml detector against moon siphon units* (before the days of slack and slack-bots). every nullsec alliance has a warnings bot for their leadership channels, and i've personally written the one that my alliance uses.* i'd actually like to see buffs towards moon siphons and similar gameplay tools by reducing/eliminating api-based detection thereof. surreptition, espionage, and general roguery lead to creative gameplay, especially when they go unnoticed for longer periods of time. while i support management tools while away from the desktop client, i will never suggest tools that could reduce the need to undock or that would threaten covert, clandestine activities.with the introduction of crest-post endpoints, players can begin interacting with the game while away from their desktops for some of the more managerial aspects. a few additions i plan to immediately take to ccp foxfour, if they<U+FFFD>re not added before i<U+FFFD>m elected: editing contact lists via crest (for players, corporations, and alliances) sending evemails through user-created clients, possibly through crest api tie-ins with upcoming structures (intelligence arrays, contents of people<U+FFFD>s hangars in your citadels, market orders in citadels, list of docked players, number of unique players who have clicked show info on your propaganda tower...) fw plex-capture events published via crest (live or semi-live) ultimately, it is my dream for anything visible from inside a station to be accessible through crest and for more player stats to be available via the traditional xml api - though, anything that requires being in space still ought to be kept safely distant from the api. ceos and directors everywhere would rejoice if they could check an app on their phone to make sure nobody's messing with their structures, but intel should be an even greater reward for those who log in, undock, and fly around. if you want your fancy new gas harvesting array to operate at peak efficiency, you would do well to fly by it every once in awhile and check up on it to make sure nobody's tampered with it."
"[reserved]"
"+1 nikolai would make a great csm member"
"from what i can tell, you offer a pretty reasonable stance on lowsec and fw."
"can confirm that this guy has his head on straight and he welcomes work not just to get it done but because he wants to make it more enjoyable for everyone can i have my family back now? please?"
"if you guys knew about half the cool **** nik has developed for us he would have been poached long ago. nik is soft spoken but assured, doesn't complain but encourages and instructs, and aside from not liking star wars in general he's an all around great guy.+1"
"you've got dng and the rest of the amarr militia votebrigade on your side, hopefully other lowsec dwellers will pile in, you deserve it.also i see you didn't take a stance on goodposting. as a csm member, can we expect frequent dank memes from you on r/eve?"
"some nice ideas here. i agree that the time it takes to capture a system is way too long. when inferno came out they reduced the amount of vp per plex to 1/5 of what it was. so it took much longer to capture a system. that's one of the reasons there were such huge fights right before inferno hit. so your request to reduce the amount to 2/3 the time is really pretty modest. with respect to some of your points i think you may be emulating aegis sov. indexes and having small groups grab space and own space. i don't mean this in a bad way because i happen to think aegis sov is fantastic and that is why i am currently in a small alliance that holds a few systems in null. but i think eve should offer more choices and fw should go in a different direction. the whole ratting to help hold space/indexes is ok for null sec, but i would be disappointed to see that in fw. the game would be too homogeneous. i would just say that null sec is already a great place for small groups to hold a few systems to call their own. imo many people view faction war sov as a joke because it involves alts in empty frigates orbitting buttons. that game mechanic is not fun. ccp said they would do 2 things to change this years ago: 1) better intel tools about when and where plexes are being taken hopefully so they can be defended real time.2) timer rollbacks.these changes were widely supported by players. but ccp seems to just have dropped the ball on these ideas and in the last csm meeting neither was even mentioned."
"what are your opinion toward current standing mechanics and penalties involved in shooting friendly milita? fw players exclusion from tactics such as smartbombing (without being very smart about where those bombs go off)."
"the standings penalties don't really do what they're supposed to. as it stands, any aggression against a militiaman can hurt your standings, including simple things like a smartbomb hitting someone's drones, whereas actual awoxing never really gets impacted. in burn huola 1, there was a guy in amarr who would fly catalysts and go after shiny ships, and there was nothing we could do but file tickets or lose standings. inter-alliance thunderdomes and other such activities are also difficult if a stray volley could kick somebody from the militia.for reference for those not in fw, you must have positive standings with your empire's faction in order to be in their militia. coupled with the penalty incurred for aggressing militiamen, there are several tactics that are perfectly valid in other pvp venues, but cannot be attempted by fw groups because they would be kicked out of the militia, including pipebombing or scramming certain allies to hold them still during a micro jump field.i personally feel the players should be in charge of policing each-other, not standings. honest accidents are usually reimbursed, and honest grievances are usually dealt with through words or wardecs. i think we all appreciate the reasoning for why the standings penalty is in place, but its flaws limit valid gameplay, and i feel it should be either removed or at least adjusted."
"i wish you the best of luck and you have my vote for sure.i only wanted to add that it is in my opinion very risky to add new features on top of fw without fixing core issues of the underlying mechanics. for example one thing you suggest are shorter deplex timers based on \"system indexes\". this alone could break fw if it is not implemented in conjunction with rollbacks. bot-like deplex alts already respawn in the same system and deplex in empty hulls as we speak. and a 0 day trial alt can o-plex novice and small plexes without big issues due to the increased starter sp. there should be no sov progression if the offender/defender runs away (nullsec has it already). rollbacks would largely fix or at least mitigate it.that being said, i hope you make it in ;)"
"you got my vote :\")"
"you are cute diana, i like what you are trying to do here, even though i still disagree at a fundamental level on the emphasis on culture over mechanisms, at least there is an understanding of how to kick back the game and encourage more conflicts.understanding that is sadly lacking in the other csm candidates. yeah, you get my vote on this one. it's that or a bunch of troll candidates :p"
"good guy +1"
"digi, who openly admits collecting people's personal info over a video game and occasionally using it to win slap fights on ****** forums, passive aggressively crying about reddit in this thread.good job gorski-san."
"gorski is a good dude."
"youre waiting for his questions but apparently you wrote a big reply to his questions already which the forums broke? think he wants to see that post."
"all the comments are tl:dr. i am curious though as to the validity of your stance on electronic warfare and drones of said nature?"
"borat:i appreciate the thought you've put into this, and i do understand the examples you're giving and why they may be a problemfrom my standpoint, roleplaying 4 separate characters, a publicly database like this would harm them to no good purpose. what if you want to experience goon culture and signal cartel culture, but a signal person runs the character's database, sees another character in goons, and decides an \"alt\" is too much of a risk when one character has nothing to do with the other.is that an odd way of playing? perhaps, although the roleplayers amongst the player base would probably not see it as such. so, for the roleplayers, i do see this idea as problematic, but i do appreciate the tactical game issues you've brought up.many thanks for the reply!-- alan mathison, explorer & industrialist, star tide industries"
"i am a role player, have been for many years, both dming and playing d&d and many other rpgs. my characters are all part of new eden with different storylines (you can read more about one of those here)i do understand that a player would like to be part of the goon empire and part of moa and part of pl at the same time. they can have content at any time of the day and the year, with any ship types... the current system of anonymous alts allows that. the problem is that it drives the psychology of the game toward the blue donut, and the new players are being sold on something that will never happen: a non-staged large scale conflict driven sci-fi universe. power players that can so easily have so many hands in so many pots have established interests that they are not likely to upset anymore. or if they will it will be on staged fights with no real losers, or chosen winners. many are those that have been lucky enough to rise to their position because they started the game earlier than the others, before the power consolidations happened.for the more recent players, they are stuck only playing with friends they can trust in real life, or join one of the established groups. and those will not allow a new group to rise to threaten their interests. they may encourage spin off (code, pfr, signal cartel,...) but those are not independents entities, they remain controlled by the same clique. they are just staged content and/or conflict drivers.so forcing players to reveal their true loyalties by making their alts publicly linked will at least give the younger players a chance to build something that can become with time and efforts a real challenge for the established interests. it will also remove the nsa-like cancer that are full apis. it will be risky to not comply with the eula and use alts to infiltrate, rob or destablize rising powers, unless another player can effectively be turned into a spy, and could (why not) become double-agent (but it won't be as easy or safe for power players to use anonymous alts to keep their grasp on all aspects of the game)"
"well, as far as i can tell evictions in c1-c4 aint that much different than in c5-c6, instead of dreads you use in example domis/ishtars, it takes hours to take down a pos and it's boring (like really boring), however i think what we need is something between c1-c4 and c5-c6, you either have the full capital warfare or \"none\", i could name 2 corps who would like to try out capitals in wspace, but are too scared due to reputation of big groups like hk, lzhx, ssc, hole control and so on (too lazy to name them all, i am sorry), i know and agree on \"wspace is dangerous and you need to be able to defend your wormhole\", but there's a lot of loss-averse people who prefer to avoid beeing seeded and killed by a superior capitalfleet, this has an impact on c5-c6 population growth though (and i doubt that my idea of allowing caps to jump from low-class into high class would fix it, however it's at least an approach), even sm.rb was influenced by that (can't deny facts).so what do you think you could do to fix/solve that issue?!also for c5-c6 content, why not add for c5s 1-2 frignullsecs as statics and for c6, as allready mentioned from others, shattered static?! i'd rather have frigstatics for c5s into 00 than the usual 3b wormhole for balancingreasons, however it would have a huge impact on evictions with intresting consequences....for capital escalations, you said that you hope more traffic if sites despawn after 24h and can't be farmed for 4 days (as it is right now), i doubt that people would then farm their static more frequently, i think that instead the amount of pve-deserts/\"bearholes\"/\"krabholes\" would increase.noobman you should poke sanders schmittlaub (ceo of njed) if you'd like some insights from a smaller c2-corp, njed is living in a c2 -> c3/hs and does everything from industrial to staticfarming to pvp in lower classes and they're also a great example of why people prefer c2s over c5s (especially keeping solo activity in mind if you're \"small\").what is your plan to drag some more loss-averse and risk-averse people into c5-c6?!regardsrc"
"why would he downgrade from pl?selling wh cfc standings 10b/month for +10 with: lazerhawks, hard knocks, overwatch this, many vacancies, golden showers, friendly probes, isogen memed. join up for swag c3 gila/osprey ratting fleets daily! we also rent c2s out with cv effect!"
"as long as he doesn't suffer from a burn-out anytime soon, noob is the best w-space candidate. +1"
"there really isn't anyone better suited to run for csm. he spends a lot of time in game and is almost always available out of game. i talked to him before and after he decided to run. i expressed my concern over my impression of his experiences being exclusive mostly to high class wormholes and nullsec and of the greater good, despite its impact on hdknx. he's got a bizarre knack for making you feel heard. it's also sometimes annoying how magnanimous he can be.i don't think he's running for these reasons everyone fears. contrary to their actions against c6 space (removing pve corps or alliances riding on their legacy [you know who you were]), i genuinely think noobman wants to look after the health and vitality of w-space from a more influential and official position where he can make the most change with a bigger voice and wider audience.i'm very optimistic that noobman, as csm, will do what's best for w-space from c1 to c6, pvx.there's literally no one running who'd be a better candidate."
"1.0"
"you have my axe."
"hella rad+1"
"despite dng's unhealthy obsession with kesha over the true lord and savior of eve, nicolas cage, nikolai has my vote."
"you do understand that he is part of mod team for one sub reddit and not the entirety of reddit right? on the /r/eve reddit i have never once seen a swastika flair ever, and its not common to see any duplicate threads, what you often see is threads on the same topic with new information revealed. as for memes, why should they be censored again? on the whole the subreddit seems much better run and i suspect the numbers would back me up."
"vote wyldnot only does he have a 4 letter name, he can shake dat booty like a pro."
"i am a bit uncertain on reducing victory points or deplex times but most of this seems extremely reasonable. unless a better candidate appears you have my vote."
"hi. i would like to ask the dev's to add more sizes to the fonts. i am currently at the max size. to me that size has become the equivalante of fine print. in creasing the font would make it easier for people like myself that have bad eyes to be able to read it. thanks in advace."
"requoting so this gets in page 3, and i might get an answer from the candidate.what are the current issues with wormhole space, xenuria?"
"please keep on topic. if you want to ask about wormholes than ask a candidate who is running on a wormhole platform."
"bumping to keep active during csm xi season, also to remind that i am still open for any comments or questions :)"
"so, a couple people have asked me who i would like to see on the csm. the following are people i've had the pleasure of interacting with to some extent ingame/irl, there may be a great many amazing candidates but i can't say much about them without any interaction now can i?gorski car - he knows his ****, but not only that he can articulate it well too. he has a very idiosyncratic sense of humour but when it's realtalk time he's great to have discussions with.mr hyde - again, he knows his **** and is really good at communicating his ideas calmly with respect for alternate opinions. super helpful, super nice, good guy.nashh kadavr - holy **** is this man a workhorse. through working with him on eve-nt collides and fight club, as well as the nottingham meets i know this man will both work his ass off and be able to work with other people effectively.notice, the important thing here is not that they're some alliance leader or that they have a mega-broad knowledge of the game, but that they are good at working as part of a group and can communicate, listen and debate well without losing their temper quickly. i'm also fairly convinced that these are honest people, by which i meant i can see a genuine love for the game in them, and that their opinions are not likely to be bought or changed by some level of politics.so yeah, should i get on csm these are the people who i would really like to be working with, and if i don't get on i believe they would be a credit to the institution regardless. thus far they're easily the top 3 i'm voting for thus far."
"big +1 for a good dude with a genuine passion for the game demonstrated by a long history of community involvement. good luck mate, you have my vote."
"am doing/have done a reddit ama here."
"only if you take that red coat off."
"you seem like a stand-up guy, and open-minded to boot. you've got my vote."
"what's wrong with that red coat?"
"+1i enjoyed reading that (albeit) long post and you can see how passionate apothne is about good content."
"red coats unite!"
"i have only ever met two types of people that wore that red coat, people who were terrible at eve or irl. please surprise me. :d+1edit: rap battle? - it's on:"
"where to sign my vote?"
"is this a post about ethics in video games?"
"actually plays the game? check.isn't owned by some mega coalition? check.actually knows what he's talking about? check."
"you've got my vote :)))))"
"there are some things worse than death..."
"they are very tricky to balance because you don't want them to be more powerful than the base module but also be useful enough to get some play. ecm drones are contentious just because the rng of ecm is very frustrating to play against. the rest of them suffer from stacking penalties like web drones which make them hard to use, as well as low hp. is there a specific ewar drone you are concerned with?"
"voting"
"haha just kidding im not gonna vote but if i did it would be for u xenuria"
"while i appreciate the sentiment i ask that you have some faith in the process. if i can fix things than it's worth fighting for. it's worth the ~effort~."
"not to rain on your parade but i'm not quite sure i want a csm rep who thinks that a solution to making battleships more popular is releasing yet more battleships.just my 2 cents."
"if you read that article again you will notice i absolutely said that those ships were fantasy items, just fun poster material, not an actual serious implementation that would \"fix\" the game."
"you have always been spot on when you visited/guested with us at the uni. love your articles and your unique perspective and i am happily confident you can bring your energy to csm, so count me in for a vote. +1 all the way."
"generic apothne strikes again.no real goal of joining csm, but just because i want to make eve a better plance and end world hunger.no real insights just like your articles, at commentaries, reddit posts...\"i'll promise i'll join wardecced corps and see how it is\".gg"
"if anything could bring frood frooster back to the game, it's to vote for apoth.+1"
"why would i choose you over xenuria?"
"what's your favourite anime and why?why would i choose you over xenuria?"
"full metal alchemist: brotherhoodbecause you think i would do a better job than him."
"op is refreshingly free of unrealistic and undeliverable promises."
"no one can do a better job than that."
"i am drunk and i aprove this message"
"wyld in 2016!"
"my name is the judge and i am proud (and excited) to announce my candidacy for csm xi. who am i?while i have rolled many characters and been known by many names since late 2003, i have been playing eve full time since 2008. i have had the privilege to participate in many wars, events and alliances but what i am most proud of is the friendships and connections i have made within the greater eve community. i strongly believe what makes eve unique in a ever changing world is the community that shapes and guides the universe we all take part in every time we open up the launcher and log in. eve is a massive and immense game fueled by the experiences of its players. it is you, the player, that i would like to represent.i am currently honored to hold the title of senior diplomat and fleet commander for the alliance circle-of-two. i am also a proud member of the circle-of-two alliance tournament team. i have lived for large amounts of time in both high and low security space. i like to think i have my ear to the ground on the issues facing pilots from all over new eden. i come to you not only as a candidate for nullsec, but as a person who wants nothing more than to see eve continue to succeed, evolve and grow.why should you vote for me?my platform is quite simple. i want to earn your vote and be the person you can voice your concerns, issues, hopes and ideas to. i want to make sure that every good idea and every concern that the eve community has makes it to ccp and the rest of the csm. i feel like the issue that continues to persist over the years is the communication barrier between players and ccp, which while i feel that ccp and the current csm have taken giant steps forward to resolving this once and for all, i feel like i have something to offer. whether you are the ceo of your one person corporation or the head of a 40,000 pilot coalition i believe that you should have a voice, and that no one voice should be louder than anyone else's. i believe that everyone has something to say, and that they should be heard. i want to be the person you can contact and always get a reply. the eve community deserves someone to filter the good from the bad and to present all the relevant information to ccp in a constructive way. over the years the i have seen the outcries caused by misinformation or misunderstanding lead to many positive changes to be scaled back or downright scrapped. i feel like this is something that is still an issue, and something that with my skills and experience, i can help resolve.another issue that has come to the forefront in the term for csmx is the issue of leaking. this puts extreme stress on the relationship between ccp and the csm, leading to a ingrained mistrust on the side of ccp. this kind of behavior from the csm needs to stop. if there is no trust between ccp and the csm there is no reason for ccp to speak to csm members at all. this can only be bad for the eve community. it is my opinion that it is the responsibility of csm members to uphold their end in their relationship with ccp, and that any breaches should not only be punished by ccp, but should also be openly and transparently condemned by other csm members. should i be given the opportunity to serve on csmxi, it is my promise to do my best to restore the damaged relationship between ccp and the csm, as well as hold any other csm's breaching nda to account.what are some things i advocate for?the list of the current (and ever changing) issues that players i have talked to think could be changed or tweaked is ludicrously long, but some of the player perceived issues i advocate the more for are:<U+FFFD> the power of nullified interceptors - the main issue here being that short of using smartbombs, interceptors in the current meta can be completely safe and untouchable. not only is this frustrating when being on the receiving side of this, but it also goes against the whole idea of \"never being safe in new eden\". one idea is to make interceptors nullified to anchorable and light interdictor bubbles, but not immune to the bubble of a heavy interdictor.<U+FFFD> new player retention; particularly the well known \"learning cliff\" - while part of the draw of eve is how unforgiving the game can be, it also means that there is a very high barrier to entry which i feel could be lowered even further, potentially with the return to the 900,000 sp starting point for new pilots.<U+FFFD> the current state of war declaration mechanics - it is my opinion that the mechanics of war declaration need to be completely redesigned. should this present itself in the term of csm xi, i feel i would have a lot to add to this discussion. not only is this an issue for highsec pilots trying to make their start in eve, but it is also an issue for lowsec and nullsec corporations and alliances. the current war mechanics allow entities to declare war on any corporation or alliance for an insignificant amount of isk and almost no risk to themselves. i feel like in its current state the war mechanics have too low of a cost for the aggressor.<U+FFFD> lack of new missions and mission variations - with a limited rotation for agent missions, eve for many players becomes incredibly repetitive and tedious. i would like to see some kind of additional rotation to agent missions. operation frostline for example is a step in the right direction, but i would like to see this expanded to what at the moment are static agent missions.closing remarkshow can you contact me?twitter: @_thejudgeingame: mail or convo the judgein closing, i urge you to vote when the time comes. there are many dedicated and worthy candidates hoping to make it onto csm xi. i hope you find me worthy of your vote and to be one of the 14 chosen to represent our amazing and unique community. thank you."
"my interview for eve_nt~"
