"well clearly 90% of these comments are useless, as another constant dueler i agree with unknown that something needs to be changed, why cant it just be like a aggro timer that lasts for a minute. i receive a aggro timer because i just won a agreed fight but some random noob that took something they didn't own can dock instantly.duels happen on station not because the regular duelers are to scared but because we are trying to entice a null or low sec pvper to duel us, these infrequent duelers aren't going to leave the safety of the station."
"i'm so excited about fozzie sov, it allows anyone with a pulse and some basic skills to participate in the sandbox that is eve. i think we should expand this fabulous system to affect even more capsuleers!i propose we include pocos (player owned custom offices) to effected by entosis links. the same as ihub's and tcu's this will empower all eve players to influence and participate in the sandbox that is eve. it will break the monopoly that exists even in high sec and provide more content as smaller groups will then be able to compete with larger organizations over income from planetary industry. i hope you all agree."
"pos too, and then just delete dreads from the game entirely."
"holy **** why have you not done something to jump fatigue yet.it's september already..."
"in the hopes that you are not being sarcastic/ironic . . . .you're welcomemmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"option 2 for the winning!!"
"+1 for option 2"
"sounds really good \o/, i vote for option 2"
"1 yr remap should be removed or reduced to say 1mth. i would also like to be able to unplug a skill if there has been no training on it. it would be simple for ccp to do and would benefit all players new or old."
"remap works well in dust514. mainly newbies which do not want own other alts (industry/support/ogb) can appreciate it."
"he is correct it is considered and the fact that code is loosely based on a fanatical religious cult is another good reason they should be dealt with, but again you all are taking shots at him even the csm who are supposed to be held to a higher standard are trolling him when this is not only a serious legal issue but also one that the csm should be looking at seriously not condoning it."
"yea funny how in the eula it does state that you are not allowed to do anything that is against the eula or any governments laws but yet is still allowed to happen"
"of course it is not by any legal definition. go talk to any lawyer or police officer and ask them if you can be \"cyber bullied\" in an anonymous video game they voluntarily play. you'll be lucky if you are not laughed out of the office. eve online is not illegal anywhere (except china i guess hence the serenity server) despite what these armchair legal experts want to claim. you are an adult. if you do not like your online experience in eve online, you are always free to click the 'close application' button and never be bothered again. this is unlike the real victims of bullying who cannot escape their tormentors, and are directly targeted as real-world people, not made-up space gods. do not demean the suffering of these real-world victims because you don't like losing imaginary space pixels in a virtual universe. if you think someone is not obeying the terms of service, bring it to the attention of ccp and they will deal with it. otherwise, lay off the victimization and attempts to metagame your in-game opponents away. running a space cult is perfectly legit in eve as is running a space extortion racket. if you don't like that, exercise your free will and find another game that suits your tastes better."
"hi everyone,i am here today to bring you a list of sessions that we will host during the first csm summit, which will be held between 14th and 17th of september. this post will also include a list of csm delegates who will be attending the summit in person, so feel free to pass them your thoughts that they can voice during the sessions. all sessions will be available to other csm delegates via the video conference as well. here are the topics / session titles:monday: meeting with ccp<U+FFFD>s ceo 3rd party / crest session sov sessions <U+FFFD> recap and further plans capitals and supercapitals power projection (wh and low-sec) tuesday: roadmap review with ep player acquisition strategies and data little things session nullsec general session customer support team purpose of the council individuality vs uniformity wednesday: qa team session eve metrics / in-game economy launcher / download on demand structures eve store art session ui session fanfest thursday: eve producers team security fw & pve white paper review community and localization summit retrospective and here is a list of attendees: sugar kyle sion kumitomo sort dragon corbexx mike azariah jayne fillon gorski car cagali cagali endie steve ronuken feel free to leave any questions regarding the summit in this thread meeting minutes:day 1 - pdfday 1 - txtday 2 - pdfday 2 - txtday 3 - pdfday 3 - txt"
"can we expect minutes along the same time frame as last summit? you did raise the bar last time around."
"as long as our typing monkey is up to it.(typing monkey is a term of affection. there's no way in hell we'd be as productive without someone else taking minutes)"
"yes, the aim is 24 hours or so."
"move up to the big leagues and go with edited audio recordings."
"can we hope to see blops changes here? :o"
"monday:meeting with ccp<U+FFFD>s ceoone would expect a meeting with ccp games lead game designer and / or executive producer since they are the ones that are more closely tight into the games development, or does the current ceo have a larger presence in the games design ?source:"
"that meeting is tuesday morning."
"this ^^^"
"ep, is short hand for ccp seagull, gotcha, will name her ep in the future then, and it sounds like et, i like it at least one half of one out of three questions answered, an awesome start for the csm summit , now for the rest."
"and answered before the summit even started!!! think about possibilitiesread and support: don't mess with our wh's what is your stance on wh stuff?"
"fw + pve in the same session is a bit strange tbh."
"while i understand that capitals and supercapitals are a very pressing issue, what about the forgotten ship classes that still need a rebalance? bcs were supposed to get another pass that was delayed. logistics, afs, black ops, rorqual, and orca still need to be looked at. also, how is the module tiericide/rebalancing going?also, for the pve section can you all please bring up the massive price tank that deadspace modules have had? i think a good way to fix this would be to add the in lots of new deadspace modules. you could do the numbers in a way that ccp nerfs the individual drop rates of modules, but as a whole the total amount of modules dropped stays the same. just an idea.lastly, what is the status of removing attributes, removing attribute implants, and giving new character more sp? i recently got a new player into eve. they are hit with having to train unfun core skills, dealing with attributes, and purchased implants to speed the process up. these are all bad things for a new player to have to do."
"it's because of the team involved. same team working on both.(if you think about it, fw is, at its core, pve. the pvp side is pretty much like any pvp)"
"its the other way around. fw at its core is pvp. since a fw complex is the purest \"come at me bro\" mechanic eve provides. its eve's domination game mode. everything around plexes is designed to not influence your pvp in any way. rats do no damage, have no ewar etc.but fw also has a reputation problem due to the fact how easy the mechanics can be abused. so i do understand why you think it is the other way around."
"heh. i'm looking at it from the game support point of view. what the developers need to work on, rather than what the players do. they tune the pve bits of it, to support the pvp bits."
"another point for pve: data site loot balancing. data interfaces for t2 invention were removed, but the faction materials needed to make them drop at the same rate as before, and are now only used to make low-demand storyline modules. at the very least, hit faction materials drop rate with a nerf bat. data sites need some \"new information\" loot to uncover, perhaps a tie in to any planned new items and structures."
"poor answer.fw needs much more than a bit of tuning to the pve bits by a team working on something else."
"im a bit concerned that ship balance aside from caps has not been hinted in a single point. hope its hidden somewhere."
"you mean those comments disagree with you. that's not actually the same as being useless."
"poses will be removed by citadels in time and for them you will have to use entosis"
"rofl.thanks, i had a bad day at work and i needed the laugh. wait, were you serious?"
"it takes time to give any topic proper attention: a game designer has to outline the current state of x, csm members with opinions about x need to discuss it, tell the game designer he or she is completely wrong, detail alternatives and struggle to reach a consensus (without damaging the furniture,) for each item x. the capital card has been drawn, and i'm grateful this class will be getting dev and csm's full attention. i hope each other class gets similar quality time, in future dev <> csm discussions.launcher: every few weeks, someone at ccp has to repost the \"new to eve?\" news item, to keep that on the front page for new players. why?! new player resources should be a perma-link on the launcher."
"if they do to other ships what they did to caps i will be glad to not hear any more about ship balancing."
"not gonna lie, it's kind of worrisome to see such amalgames and misconceptions about fw. grouping us with pve, thinking our pvp is like any other pvp, seriously... just the way plexes and their size limitations work is plenty different to the pvp in other spaces."
"trust in team space glitter and sugar kyle my fw peeps.new fw missions! yes!"
"i hope you gave them a hint that there is an area where they can have ~content~ in newbie-friendly ships like t1 frigates with only a minor chance to lose their pods? and that the area is called lowsec?well if yes then why do you insist to skrew up gameplay throughout eve instead of advocating to tweak the lowsec itself?anyway, i have a question regarding this session:does ccp feels what kind of player profile fits their game? i mean there are players who prefere to spend 3 seconds to purchase ak-47 at the respawn point and then proceed to the fun part asap. on the other hand, there are players who prefere to build more ziggurats before engaging in the actual pvp. it feels like ccp is trying to sit on both chairs and that causes a lot of frustration in both groups of players."
"dear ccp and csm,is plex going to solo be an in game item, to be used for all ccp games services, that are going to be provided through the new eden store ?reason:for me, and perhaps others, there is a big controversy going on concerning plex and how it is used in ( out of game ) gambling / lottery sites,which uses real money to trade for a change to win plex, that can be converted to isk !at the moment they use the wording of the eula to circumvent a(ny) rmt violation,because plex is still used as an out of game item for ccp games account services,that has not yet been fully transferred to the ( in game ) new eden store.source:"
"i'm bearing this in mind for something. (though i can't say what yet)"
"other than potentially existing in size and class limited plex (which contain npcs.) how is your pvp different? did i say that fw was pve? nope. but in the end, pvp is pvp. it's not significantly different, once you get face to face. it's the getting face to face where it's different. other than that, fw does contain strong pve elements. just look at all the farmers running fw missions. you don't think those need to be worked on? (when they're hilariously imbalanced between the races due to missile use by the npcs. and a stealth bomber is the optimal ship to use for an l4. and you chain 18 at a time)i have an alt in fw. gorski has an alt in fw. sugar listens to fw people. anyway: so i have talking points when the summit comes up, what do you want brought up?"
"\"other than potentially existing in size and class limited plex\" -> but that part is extremely important. it is the very reason why the pvp in faction warfare is a lot more accessible and more numerous than in other parts of the game.fw pvp is very different from wh pvp, null pvp, and others. it offers the only place in the game where you can find pvp-ready pilot in dynamic places (unlike gate-camps, anoms fulls of ratters, etc...).all those farmers running missions in min/amarr and farming plexes in cal/gal is precisely *one* of the core issues we have right now in fw. so what you call a strong pve elements is what i see as a problem, if anything we could use less of that pve element, and see it grouped with our time in the summit is worrisome.but hey, to be more constructive, if there is anything i want brought up in the summit it's that very prevalence of farmers in fw space. that point takes multiple forms, like making missions more pvp-inducing (by having them ask for proper pvp fits instead of gimmicks like sbs), or the way people don't have to put any skin in running plexes except the good ol' time sinked.edit: also, the only reason for the existence of those npcs in plexes is to prevent afk-farming, so...."
"ooooooh shite. shots fired. you said fw is pve. at its core aka in its heart and soul. you'll burn for that ronuken. burn. lol"
"this reminds me of another thread where people are completely hung up on the term pve.think of them as environments, and leave the pv out of it. then everything makes a lot more sense: the same team responsible for environments (or landscape, or terrain, as you prefer) in eve is responsible for the environments in factional warfare.to play king of the hill, you need a hill."
"your cowardice to leave the docking ring should neither be encouraged or rewarded."
"no! don't turn wh into minisov and mini empires. wh-systems should stay the way they are. no sov and no upgrades. maybe not even the new structures."
"meant every word! represent us well at the upcoming summit.rov"
"csm peeps,i would love if you could bring up an issue with \"on grid\", \"off grid\" issues/abuse. a group of people in uedama like to use the border of ongrid/offgrid to bump freighters to. this causes issues for defenders drones to be lost, and the ability to be a few km away from the target, but not be able to see it, and then loose lock on the targets.so why can't the grid just be expand dynamical as ships occupy space, with no fake walls? im not trying to stop them from bumping, i understand that is part of the sandbox, but if i am 20km from a freighter, i should see it and orbit it with out fear of being taken off grid.thanks for your time!"
"personally i would like to see time set aside for the upcoming structure changes. how ccp is going to compensate outpost and upgrades in the up coming changes has paralyzed one of our corporations projects. we were in process of building a caldari station, but we are afraid to now because we make get pennies on the dollar in compensation for our investment. let us know if were going to get a 1:1 compensation from an outpost to xl structures or not so we can do something besides guessing. be less ambiguous or be quiet about things so you do not basically kill certain gameplay months before those changes are set to happen."
"you mean like the structures session on wednesday?anyway: no, there won't be 1 for 1 compensation from outposts to xl structures. outposts are more similar to large, than xl.aside from that, citadels aren't drop in replacements for outposts. and outposts will be around for a fair time, as it'll take time until all the service modules to replace outpost and pos functionality are released."
". . . isd pls moderate my fail use of the forums"
"mea culpathank you for the clarity. my corp may decide to improve our space now or just horde resources for xls."
"structures are important to me, as they're key for industry."
"i'll get right to it. i purpose we have \"off-grid systems\" that can only be reached by wormhole. these systems would be totally alien to eve and would not appear on any map. there would be no gates in them as they are totally uncharted and unseen by anyone but you the pilot. much of the excitement of exploration is gone from eve as soon as you realize that for all the vastness that is eve it is pretty much just the same thing duplicated 50k times. i'd like to get some of that excitement back. i purpose ccp create unique solar systems that are unlike anything else in eve. maybe with binary or trinary star systems with... just with cool **** to find. long dead alien ships floating derelict in space and other ruins that defy categorization that no one can really guess what they ever were used for. some of these sites might have dangerous enemies that fly ships that are not part of eve as we know it. maybe with extreme riches hidden in them. maybe some have nothing at all but a pretty backdrop you can warp around. maybe there could be interaction with ship ai's that give you a puzzle to figure out and a reward if you can before your wh collapses and leaves you stranded. these should be rare but varying. no one pilot should ever see the same one twice. i purpose that ccp make a new system for this each month and until it only stays open for a short time and only allows maybe 3 ships through before collapsing. maybe just one ship. then it gets scraped and ccp makes a new one. give this to intern to do. 12 new systems a year. for maybe only 12 ppl to see each year and take screen shots of and video if they have the presence of mind to do that. please add suggestions and let me know what you think of the idea. let's get ccp to take notice of this idea."
"unless you agresss a structure (by shooting it, or smartbombing it) fof missiles dob;t shoot structures, and haven't shot at structures for like 3 years now. i use fof missiles (i refuse to call them \"auto-targeting\") every single night for ratting/missions."
"ok, so they did actually change that in the end. i wrote a proposal years ago (probably just before that time you mentioned, actually), asking exactly the same thing. so they're working normally now?excellent, thanks!"
"o7"
"lower the cost to build subcapital ships, thereby eventually making subcapital ships more affordable to new & old players. the current price points of ships are becoming a perceived barrier of risk aversion that is keeping many people on a 'play it safe' mentality as they are not to keen to lose the battleship they may have saved the last month for.5 years ago you could have a dominix for under 60 million jita going rate. today that price is just under 200.cheaper ships -> more fights -> more content."
"mate do us a small favour pleasetell seagull we miss her, ok? we miss her and she can talk to us whenever she wants."
"any love for the second decade collector's edition holders ?i understand ccp pokethulhu is no longer at the company, but ccp did promise us this: source:"
"boosters are way underused and sadly misunderstood, simply because the cost of the skill book, \"neurotoxin control\", is way too high. many people in game never experience the benefits of illegal boosters because they are afraid of the drawbacks, so they try synth boosters which don't do squat. they then infer that boosters are at best not effective and hence why would they waste 250m on 2 skill books, as well as training time on something that doesn't work or even hurts them. the simple short term fix is obvious to me. lower the cost of entry by dropping the price of the skill book neurotoxin control. this should be pretty easy to do!idea #2, is to further create interest in boosters by making a new booster that in some way reduces/modifies jump fatigue. or allows you to jump while you have fatigue, or one that even increases jump range - of course at the cost of possible nasty side effects ;}boosters are one of the gems of eve. how there made, how there sold, how there moved, and how and there used really capture whats so awesomely unique about this game. give em a little love please!"
"isn't that skillbook available only as a drop from certain sites, meaning that the price is entirely player controlled?"
"your correct, the books is a loot drop. however, game designers could make the book drop more frequently or, for example, the book could just seeded in some npc stations for a fixed price."
"so...crater the mineral prices, thus making it harder to earn the money by mining and industry, thus pushing people out of those roles and thus pushing the ship prices back up again?the 60mil domis were a result of bot mining and done poop. they removed the later and have done a number of mass bans on the former. do you really think they're going to undo all the work?(hell, they only just increased the mineral costs, didn't they?)"
"paragraphs."
"all good topics to be sure. however i have a concern and i did not see it anywhere, i also have not seen it discussed outside of doom tellers and those that say eve is dead. i have seen the numbers, i am having difficulty in both recruitment and participation. i would like to see some discussion by the csm to discuss exactly what the drop off in online numbers are and what if anything ccp plans to do to help increase participation. reasons i have been given. entosis = boredom, more so than mining. jump fatigue = lots of different reasons, most just don't like it, if anyone gets more than 24 hrs they do not log in for a week.sov = no one feels safe, what is the use of building up anything as it is too easily lost. and the list goes on and on and still includes the big blue donuti know the truth and do not agree with the sentiments given, i do my best to talk people into staying. content is getting harder to find. it takes longer travel ect.however the result is participation in my corp, in my alliance, in my coalition is down by 75% those i talk all say the same. i remember as little as six months ago logging in right after downtime and seeing numbers of 25k to 35k online, now i'm lucky to see 10k to 20k.i just want to know what is going on.thank you for your time."
"my guess is quite simple, yet i didnt see anyone suggest it yet, so here we go.people were working to get into capships before phoebe and fozziesov. now they dont.capitals and supercaps were very inspiring and every miner out there in hisec had a vision that maybe, someday, in a distant future, he will be piloting a titan. or at least a carrier. now that capships are worhless (they cannot move at 4000 m/s, thus cannot even defeat a trollceptor) that vision dims and the will to login to keep mining - evaporates.ccp has a plan (as far as i understand it) to substitute these expensive toys with another toys, equally expensive, but less dangerous. those are the new structures - citadels. in general, i agree that this is a good direction. citadels are a pretty huge investment to make their construction a long-run gameplay. and devs can make those awesome enough without fear to give a birth of some monsters that will gravitate into a wrecking ball and start rolling around galaxy.but the details regarding citadels, seen so far, bother me.coming from completely indestructible outposts to a citadel that can be popped by a rookie ship... well, what a twist! the degree of awesomeness of such citadels is subpar even compared to the current capships."
"false."
"hi everyone, it<U+FFFD>s me again! today i wanted to share some of my happiness with you all [img]"
"ooh but that's good .<3 thanks."
"fyi: /u/manuelnoryigga is the reddit account of manfred sidious, he posted some csm-related stuff there too."
"thanks! added to the list :)"
"just fyi, jayne fillon's twitter name is @sf_jayne rather than @bomberjayne - and he'd like more followers please :-)"
"this is awesome stuff! i will share it with my corp mates."
"this is very useful...bravo and thanks!"
"well done young lady !smashing job. jolly good indeed."
"that is an absolutely awesome idea......but does the layout have to be so bad?the bland blue coloring looks very unfinished too.just give me (us) a chronological list, please.(as a side note, even"
"such list is not a thing i am afraid, maybe some coding people could pull all the posts via rss and produce such list? not sure.design suggestions are appreciated and i will try to implement some/most of them. ability to click on pictures and titles was added today as an example."
"this is great, thank you i like that you can click user #tags and filter just to one person. this is probably just a wierd request but sometimes i prefer just a grid layout to do a major chunk of reading. if it's possible to add a customisable view with just a list (date/username/topic/other tags) at some point that would be awesome, but if it's a niche request that'll hardly be used nws. the tile layout looks similar to how tmc looked after they fiddled with it to optimise it for mobile devices, which for some reason prompted loads of complaints (dunno what they were all carrying on about cos i really only use a pc). it might be worth making the tiles a uniform size if people make the same complaint.it'd be really handy if the big news sites (en24/tmc/cz/sr - and possibly reddit) adding a one click link to this site for visibility. i know it's not your job to tell them how to lay out their sites, but hopefully they'll pick it up. also total eve! - looks to have a csm feed but this is better."
"this looks great, thanks! very helpful."
"i like this idea. just so everybody is on the same page, it was my idea for ccp to get a tumblr long before they even considered using it as a platform for \"news\"."
"i see what your saying however.... someone is going to come on and say we already have those. they are called other worm holes connected to other worm holes. now what would be neat ,would be off grid rogue planets, stations, ships or gasp!! aliens!!! with lost or super rare tech. one of a kind items. something to be truly collectible.examples......1. near perfect condition ship or ships from the early days pre wh collapse. these could be one of a kind to rare to fairly rare ships. they could also be rare experimental ships or ships that have simply vanished for any reason. from common frigates to the previously mentioned terran ships. <--------- new (old) tech to help adapt to drifter threat.2. modules stored in old stations. lost mineral transports, pos's that fell out of orbit and drifted through space only to be pulled into orbit or about to collide into a unknown structure/ planet.3. new unknown structures that the jovian's built with jovian tech. <------ new (old) tech to help adapt to drifter threat."
"excellent ideas. that's what i mean. stuff to be discovered. also it must be very rare and very cool. that is what makes it worth searching for. be nice to be able to make a few plex off on such site, but that is secondary really. yeah guess ur right a lot of what i described was just like a wh, but i want more than that. i want huge ruins and , yeah, aliens in alien ships. cool stuff. almost easter egg kinda stuff. maybe even some really cool easter egg sites. where you see depictions from scifi books. the space baby from space odyssey 2001 or some such coolness. can you imagine how cool it would be to find one of these sites and fire up a live stream to show your friends that would link to all their friends and so on. until you have everyone in eve watching your twitch stream or google stream? that would be so much fun."
"...because 'why not?', and discrimination against drones is not cool"
"this can only end with more capital lossmails. i fully endorse this."
"1. they are already in game gods. (they can taketh! or giveth!)2. did you watch to much star gate? ( i like star gate to however, lets not get out of hand here this is eve)3. i like the idea they found a whole new cluster they discovered and will reveal it 3 million years from now. i mean we are immortal so not a big deal."
"i was actually just joking, but your response makes you look like a complete fool. ...and to be honest, a proposal like this would ruin eve, and turn it into a pseudo-wow clone. take your idea and put it in the bin, please."
"and you already can have that information after the transaction with any of the trading tools available."
"i can tell you now prices on bc's and especially bs's are way over their worth. from 2004 to... at least 2010 prices pretty much stayed around 45 to 70 million isk for a scorpian. don't throw bots up as a reason for price spike. especially considering in the beginning when there was no...... mining barges or mine forman links to boost production. by all accounts they should have gotten cheaper not more expensive.it took a good week+ with a mining crew of about 4 to 5 people to build 1..... i, repeat 1..... apoc. to which the cost was around 110 to 140 mill isk. so do not come on here spouting bots were the reason of them being cheap!!"
"i will do that and hope the eact words make it into the minutes, malcmmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"i write this complaint every few months.the gate \"jump tunnel\" effect which replaced a pause and \"loading\" message, made a nice fanfest demo, its cool the first few times, but taking over player camera to ram us thru gates gets annoying very quickly. this is primarily a 3rd person spaceflight game, this first-person visual effect is disruptive. i do most of my long-distance traveling on the map screen. csm please advocate for / ccp please rework the gate jump effect, so that camera takeover isn't necessary, or at least add an option to disable the forced camera move.player acquisition - npei think certain information, such as npe stuff, on the official wiki should be ccp's responsibility:go to the main page and click \"getting started\" takes you to \"category:new player experience\"click on: the user interfacenote: old neocom buttons and overview icons. ship status panel doesn't have info on sensor overlay. i think the \"official manual\" should be updated, by feature teams, when they make a change."
"upd: as some of you have questioned my design skills, here is the same information in a spreadsheet."
"click 'like' to support ;-)"
"on balance, i might have to suggest that it would be restricted to sub-cap hulls, because, as you rightly point out, the number of capital lossmails will increase hilariously. this would be in the interests of balance.having said that, though, i would encourage ccp to allow them on carriers, so that the tears flow more freely."
"i am new to this game, but like many more nubes ,i like to have ships that can do something more that my standard galente ships,so i purchased the gnosis and because it cost's so much as a nube, i wanted to insure it unfortunately the max payout for this ship if destroyed is 5 isk.i have sent a ticket in and found the readon for this is there is no blueprint thus a value cannot be put on because the system becuse it does not know what and how many materials required to build it.so i was told to come with my idea on how to get around this, and that is make a ghost blue print up that the system can see but players cant , as the true value at the moment for this ship is only 5 isk and if i had known this from start i would not of parted with 78million isk,as taking this into a fight could be a expensive loss.please see if it is possible to correct this by making some type of ghost blueprint so as the value of the isurance payout is as good or better than what it actually cost to purchase it or drop the price of the gnosis to 5 isk.cheers"
"the issues with this are...- the gnosis was given as a gift to everyone in the game about 2 years ago- it was released in a 15-run bpc to anyone who bought the eve online collector's edition- the game's database cannot differentiate between ships released or built at different times (unless they remain \"assembled\"... which nothing on the market is)- the devs very much dislike artifically injecting raw materials or isk into the game... hence why almost every ship given out as a gift is worthless in terms of mineral and insurance valuealso... welcome to eve. never buy what you cannot afford to lose (even with insurance).instead, use your new toy to make some isk and buy another ship you can insure (after all, when life gives you lemons... make lemonade and pour it over someone's head).or just sell it."
"appreciate the support. still holding out hope that ccp will at least respond on this thread.maybe if it were posted on reddit they'd pay more attention... seems like they watch that closer than they do their own site."
"keep this not auto locked, support needed."
"all polarized weapons are the close range variant of the weapon class. drones would be long range. i don't think ccp wants that."
"have them affect gardes only, in that case vov"
"the ep meeting is today iirc?"
"summit is next week."
"numbers and dates are pretty difficult"
"but we want you guys to suffer"
"i proposed something a few days ago that would solve a lot of the issues fozzie sov is raising namely the indexes and the bullshits with command nodes, but still adressing the issue of unhabited space.if people wanto read the wall of text:"
"with the summit coming up and starting this weekend it has come to my attention that a lot of details and the small parts of aegis sov may have slipped through the cracks and people may not be clear on how aegis sov works.with this in mind i have been in contact with people at ccp and am using my connections as a csm to try and facilitate the making of list of frequently asked questions with answers for both the attacker and defender. these questions i aim to submit to ccp and in turn they have agreed to take the time to answer them so we have a lasting list of questions and answers for those who may in the future need a quick go to for aegis sov.i am here to ask you as the player base to submit to me questions regarding the mechanics of aegis sov that you think people would need to know if they were going to attack or defend entosis sov.with me doing this it does not mean i agree or disagree with how sov is or what it could be. for the sake of this faq i am impartial, this is simply an attempt by me to give people the chance to come to me with questions that you would ask yourself when you were taking or defending sov under the current mechanic. i will be limiting the questions to 20 per side, 20 for an attacker 20 for a defender this is to not overload people too much. i will update the list as i see good questions come in from this thread of from external sources.please post your questions below in this thread or mail them to me in game. i hope to populate this list as quickly as possible with the aim to hopefully submit this to ccp during the summit.the questions:attackers:1. if you kill an ihub in a system with a military index, will the index stay up if you launch a new ihub before the next downtime?2. do the defenders get an alert at the start or end of my warmup cycle?3. what is an entosis link? how does it work and how does it effect my ship when i use it?4.5.6.7.8.9.10.11.12.13.14.15.16.17.18.19.20.defenders:1. if you lose your capital system are you be able to choose a new one right away or do you have to wait the designated 1 week?2.34.5.6.7.8.9.10.11.12.13.14.15.16.17.18.19.20.thank you for taking the time to submit your questions."
"submited my question via skype:)"
"(attacker pov) do the defenders get an alert at the start or end of my warmup cycle?"
"this has been asked, and answered by a dev. it is intentional.i don't need twitter. i'm already following you."
"too late mate, we already left. the last one turns the lights off."
"(defender pov) there's a wh in my ratting system. do i have to be afraid?"
"(attacker pov) wheres the carrot? the stick is here, sov is harder to hold, but why do we want to hold sov beyond our name on the sov map? why would someone want to take sov? i don't see why anyone who isn't in sov null wants to get into sov null. every other type of space has better income, and to defend our sov we have to mine or rat instead of the few ways to make comparable money to the rest of eve in sov."
"(defender pov) when are things like pi, importing, ship building, and actually pvping in our space going to matter? this sov system forces us to rat and mine, when will we be rewarded for the actually valuable parts of living in sov null?"
"no, put a scout on the hole just like you would on a gate and watch local and dscan"
"how are you going to fix the wormhole situation you supposedly ****** up? signatured removed, ccp phantom"
"how can i best utilize the entosis mod for my super to rat in peace as the csm intends?"
"what are the dangers to sov holders from brining back old wormhole spawn rates?"
"dear sort,i know that it can be frustrating as **** when your input falls upon death ears, or when ccp employees make condescending and snarky remarks about how if we don't like aegissov nullsec then we might try doing some smallgang (ie chasing ceptors around), or when a game developer suggests that it isn't important that most of nullsec has concluded that there is no incentive to hold sov and are unsubbing, and and that we should all just go to lowsec.please attempt to remain civil and not troll / lose your composure at the summit. it is obvious that the dev team is a little thin skinned at the moment, and anything that they could construe as criticism of their recent development direction might completely bias them against you to the point that they completely ignore your feedback (which to be fair wouldn't be much different then what they do now). it must be even more frustrating when you realize that the development team is literally ignoring all of the content creators in the game screaming at them that recent / proposed changes are making eve even less of a game and more of an unpaid job. you have a lot to contribute, and even though you should keep your hands off our wormholes, your voice needs to be heard when it comes to capital and nullsec. a lot of us our counting on you. please don't let us down.love,boson"
"why should i own sov?why should i defend my sov?why should i attack anyone's sov?more elaborate here:"
"attacker -1. yes2. end - they get it the second you actually start to move the timer3. high slot module used due to sov structures and outposts having no more ehp because of some drifter lore and now you have to use entosis to capture or destroy a structuredefender -1. no you can choose a new one immediately and it goes into affect immediately, if you only have one system left, it is automatically chosen for you and updated immediatelyi'll answer more questions as they come in"
"thisi don't need twitter. i'm already following you."
"is there any way to tell if one guy in a frigate is trolling my sov or is it an organized gang? must i respond in full force to each notification is what i'm asking. how come the attackers alliance isnt displayed? this would go along way towards gauging the threat and necessary response."
"(both attacker and defender) what is the role of battleships in the new sov system? was anything in particular planned for bses? are ccp satisfied with the current bs usage in null pvp?"
"how about you shut your pie hole that lies seem to continuously spew from?"
"isn't this more than a little pointless, sort? the questions that you have already put on the list are answered in multiple places already, i.e. dev blogs. shouldn't valuable summit time be used to discuss things that can't be learned elsewhere? in that spirit, here's a question for you:why should i even try to take and hold sov when i can't even be bothered to read about how it works?"
"without attempting to provide any evidence or context to back up your (completely unfounded) ad hominem attack, you come off as an uncouth, desperate instigator either attempting to slander my good name and/or to derail this thread.shame on you, your disgraceful actions dishonor the name of brave newbies everywhere."
"ccp can't lower the price of the ship, that is set by players. if insurance is increased many players could become rich by blowing up their gnoses. i suggest you simply resell you gnosis at a small loss if you don't want it."
"if i remember rightly, the insurance payout is based on the base price of the minerals required to build a ship.looking at my gnosis bpc, it's 1 unit of trit to build each one.so...yeah. working as intended, and if you think that's bad yu should see the payouts on t2, t3 and pirate faction ships."
"go check out magic school bus by mike azariah source:"
"are you guys going to summit with certain ideas or just waiting to see what ccp has cooked? also:last time ccp touched data sites it became even worse. i haven't found single named faction material since then (they supposed to be added to the sites...). any plan to repair them? it's worthless content right now."
"we're going with ideas, but the core is to see what ccp tells us. if that makes sense?we're constantly talking with ccp about how we're finding things, and where we think work is needed. it's probably more than a touch irritating for them"
"i'm curious as to whether the approach to citadels is still 'concept' phase or if there's been a 'design freeze'? lots of feedback to the blog discussing thoughts on citadel sieges, including the lack of automated defenses and inability of players to 'interact through dps' when attacking (i.e. blow the thing up with guns). i count myself in that camp and would like to see entosis mechanics blended with dps, but i get the feeling the 'concrete' of the new structure foundations is starting to set....."
"as expected, thank you.good luck and many fruitfull discussions on summit for all ccp and csm members."
"upd2: design was updated. huge thanks to shyaltii <3"
"actually, thinking about it more, you might be able to make a case for this fictional polarised drone module applicable only for non-sentry drones. if the polarised modules are only for the short range variants, light/medium/heavy drones are arguably the short-range drone variant, as they still must spend time mwding to their target, much as you would if you ship was fitted with blasters or acs."
"have you seen the new bc thread atop this sub? f&i (i assumed that's where we we, it's usually where the silly ends up)"
"if ccp games could acquire the rights for the stargate universe, and tie that in with the new eden wormhole (extreme) omg"
"you're basically suggested ripping off tropes here and there from other rl cultural sources to...do what exactly? add something to this game?i say no. eve is unique and has enough of a background to stand on it's own, without resorting to desperate cribbing of external sources to spice things up."
"if this is any indication of the 'quality' you are proposing to add to eve, i think i speak for the rest of the community when i say...no."
"ha, ha...easy to confuse! thanks for the tip"
"please take moon mining depletion into consideration for boosting null sec activity, thank you."
"null sec residents often complain there is no real reason to fight, or even worse think it is better to be blue friends living next to each other.i propose (based on prior topic mentioning) ccp and the csm should look at moon mining and how it depletes over time at the moment, moon mining is accomplished by anchoring a moon harvester array at a pos around a moon with minerals in it.these deposits are constant and always present at the moon; they never change or deplete.source:"
"i think ccp (greyscale?) has wanted to replace it with something that requires more player activity. i don't think scanning moons every few months and moving to new ones (pos sieges to displace current occupants) is enough. i really like planetary industry; moons could use a similar mechanic. (but please not a carbon copy, e.g., i believe data site hacking should not be identical to relic site hacking.) pi requires players in space, making pickups at a fixed location. income increases with player activity, not just because the planet is good."
"i have alternate ideas which would have a similar kind of effect (i think) but would be less 'annoying'. because moon scanning is next to the most annoying thing people can be forced to do."
"if you know this is a redundant thread, why did you repost it?what makes you think anyone is going to want to scan thousands of moons, every what, week or so?how high do you want to spike the cost of t2 goods?why do you want to encourage groups that have been condensing for months to start sprawling again?and what makes you think people are going to be willing to actually fight over the things? why risk 100b+ in ships to fight for a moon that's only going to make you 10b before it depletes?"
"looks really good keep up the great work , one question any reason my screen is blank if i go straight to the csm or now tumblr site i can only see them sort of half on my dashboard in tumblr?"
"honestly, i don't know if this is even fixable, given the way eve works, but i'll put it out there, anyway.i've played enough to accumulate about 40m sp on my main clone. it's taken some time for me to get there.and i've realized that i will never actually catch up to someone who already has 140m sp. when i get to 140m, they'll have 240m. in short, i'm always going to be in this tier of player, and it will never be anywhere near the top tier.yes, i know lower sp players are useful and able to participate in many aspects of the game, but in the big picture those with the most (relevant) sp are always at an advantage.and there's nothing i can do about that."
"thanks to those csm members that keep us informed of the summit sugar kylesource:(day 1)"
"wow. is it christmas already? thanks for the timely release of the first day minutes.still reading them through, but so far i'd like to comment that i like the format better, i.e. quoting rather than summarized.edit: page 13. commented too soon"
"would it be possible to have hidden data/relic sites? similar to how it was before where they don't immediately show up in your probing window, but instead must be scanned for to find them? i'm not saying to change them all but add other ones that don't appear by default and are harder to scan down like the limited sleeper sites etc. also the payout on the data sites really needs to be looked into, they are typically just not worth the time."
"moar stuff about wormholes cheers. and meets, always meets and holes :d tank yu :d"
"it is still very condensed from what happened. there were some nda things in pretty much every meeting, and those just got excised, with a little editing to have other lines make sense without them. and side conversations weren't there. or some comments. but to go actual word for word would be very time consuming.they get the gist of things, at least."
"if you can't find the day one minutes because it isn't linked in the first post, or on the launcher - two places i looked... its in the news channel."
"i like the idea and agree. i started playing eve in beta and after about a year was a bit bored so i made it my mission to travel and see all the sights. back then they were not on the map, you just had to get lucky and find them. i spent months just warping to planets and such to see what i could find.now even exploration to find data and relic sites doesn't offer that anymore because you can clearly tell when there are anoms present in a system by just looking at the probing window. would be nice to have \"hidden\" sites, that require good scanning skills. more like a puzzle where you find something with some info that leads you somewhere else where you can discover another part of the puzzle until eventually you find the site.long ago pirates used to drop little book like things that contained info like this that if you followed the info would lead you to other hidden pirate hang-outs."
"and you had to remind me again how little insurance payout there will be when (not if, it's gonna happen eventually!) i lose the astero, dramiel, and other 'pirate' faction ships in my personal use fleet. regular t1 four empire ships pay out on platinum at least a smidge more than estimated retail value shown in isis. why can't other ship types get the same base numbers?? goodness knows the insurance charges are scaled to range, just not the payout. i'm not asking to make my fortune by losing my higher end boats (i don't see that as a viable way to come out ahead in the wallet budgeting), i'd just like a level payout range. pretty sure this conversation has popped up on the forums before.>jeven"
"@ javen...the reason for the bad insurance payouts on pirate and faction ships is because, mineral-wise, there is nothing special about them.their cost is due to factors other than minerals (and thus outside of the insurance system). lp cost, lp-isk ratio"
"i've always wondered why they didn't have common defaults like that in there already.there should be a pre-made pvp overview as well with some common settings. would really help the new players understand things much better, as joining the game and trying to learn all the overview settings isn't a great new player experience."
"there is something you can do. accumulate isk and visit the character bazaar, problem solved."
"fortunately for you, the relevant sp between a 40mil and a 100mil sp player, much less a 140 and a 240, is going t be pretty much identical.for instance, how does my 15mil in gunnery help if we're flying hamgus? or any of my cap skills, or other racial skills, armour, drone, torp, hml skills...need i go on?older characters have more breadth, not more depth."
"until the game changes. when i started, hurricanes were the battlecruiser to fly. so i trained those skills. then it was nerfed, and dominations and ishtars were the ships of choice. those with 100m skill points already had full drone and armor skills, and just jumped in.i couldn't even fly one, yet, much let have the skills to do so effectively.and then missiles became \"the thing\". again, those with sp just switched. again, i was on the outside training in. and then there were t3 cruisers and supercarriers and t3 destroyers, and all kinds of toys that certainly keep the older players interested, but also keep them ahead."
"1. take a look at the thread in my sig (skilltraining and you). there is no such thing as \"\" once you reach a certain amount of skills.2. what you are describing is not \".\" it is \"chasing the fotm.\" when you stop chasing fotm and just start playing with things you actually like... the game opens up for you.edit: 3. even if you are playing the \"fotm chase\" you are eventually going to get to a point where cross-training to the \"next thing\" will be as simple as training up the ship line itself and nothing more. this is because many ship lines share certain characteristics (ex. amarr and gallente ships both use armor tank, guns, and have a decent lineup of drones... once you train up to use a tech 3 cruiser, you are only a stones throw away from using a tech 2 cruiser).tldr; having more skillpoints is, by itself, meaningless. the real questions are where those skillpoints are applied and how effectively you can use them?and no, just because you can't use an ishtar it does not mean you are \"locked out\" from using cruiser-sized drone ships. grab a vexor."
"even though i hope to see \"walking in stations\", i would like to see the space part made as good as possible first. besides, a greater experience in space would make a possible wis expansion better as well. there are some practical challenges with wis i have thought of. here is something about emotes. emotes are necessary to some extent in order to have more immersion, because without the environment won't feel so alive. i have a novel idea, which is to make them partly automatic. so, no need to write in emote commands unless you want to, your character would still react to the environment. it's of course given that this is technically possible and possible in a multiplayer setting, but i have heard of a similar mechanic for sounds. in general, it seems emotes are not often used in mmo games from my experience, even though you often have many to choose from. perhaps the reason is that is takes too much time to enter the emote command, when the focus is on the action or writing text in the channels/communicating. or it is just not interesting or it doesn't feel right to use them. i suggested before a text based system for describing actions and expressions in this setting, where you are using your own words. i am just wondering if a system like that would be used by people. so i thought i would come up with something instead that didn't need any input but still work, which is a way to make emotes more natural and flowing, by making them partly automatic. the emote would be automatic for your character, and dependent on if you stand alone or are walking, people are standing or walking next to you, how many people are next to you, an information display is next to you, a noise nearby and so on. for example, if someone walked past your character, he or she could turn slightly in their direction as they passed or if someone walks into you you get pushed aside. or if you stand next to a display your character turns to look at it, until something other happens that draws the attention away from the display. this would be due to the influence on a decision system, for which emotes takes precedence. the mechanic i have seen for sounds is this decision system. parametres like distance, time and relevance make all the recordings \"compete\" and when the parametres are close enough the matching recording is played. in other words the game knows in which cases it should play which recording. i haven't heard about this being used for animations before. the idea is not to completely replace other emotes, but instead that your character makes natural subtle acknowledgements to that there are other characters or activeties happening around, without you having to activate an emote. that the reactions are instant, helps make it more natural. but a problem would be if all characters were having the same reactions, it would make the emotes too predictable and you wouldn't at all be able to affect how your character would react.so a system like this should have some modifications. first, there could be several different base posture animations you could choose from when standing still. the posture animation you see in the captain's quarters is an example of a type of posture i would like to see, as it actually consists of several animations. but if more were made, you could choose which one your character would display, which could be the emotes when standing alone. the base posture animations could be based lightly on a particular feeling or the personality of your character. for example, curiosity could be looking interestedly around you, indifferentness could be not caring about what happens around you. in addition, choosing between different gaits for your character would bring some more individuality. another modification could be setting a premise for the automatic emotes. with premise i mean that you could make a base attitude or personality, that influences directly which automatic emotes your character has as someone walks close to you, you hear a noise and so on, so that your character reacts differently even though it is the same action influencing the emote decision system. like for the base posture animations, curious and indifferent could be examples of these attitudes or personalities, making your character react with curiousity or indifferentess to things happening nearby. my hope is that if a system like this could be made, people wouldn't think that the emotes were there because it would fall so natural. the possibility for emotes you activate could be added on top of all this again. the most common actions like greeting and saluting work well, because they are not so personal in displaying and are likely to be used more often. that's not to say other emotes couldn't be used. expressions are more challenging to get right i think, but that shouldn't be discouraging in trying to achieve them.certain objects could allow for additional emotes, for example sofas for sitting down (eve already have this system).activated emotes need to be activated by something faster than typing them in,like the possibility for mapping to a dedicated key on the keyboard or pressing an icon. for communicating,i imagine two ways in wis,one is a channel where everyone in the in-station wis are listed.writing in this channel, or any of the other usual channels, is in-game practically communicating through writing on a pad or talking through a headset. if you want to show that this is what you are doing, there could in theory be an emote for this you could activate.i think of this as possibly being a flexible pad attached on the arm, for easy access. a headset is likely small and concealed.the other way is having a private conversation by either walking up to someone and inviting to a conversation, writing a message on a pad or it could be talking through a headset. it could be possible to invite to a private conversation with two or more people as well."
"as i said back when sitll was a time, wis could be implemented in small incremental steps, one emote at a time, to say so. what is a blocker for a juggernaut is not a blocker for a smaller, nimbler craft.not that it matters much at this point. there's not enough players left for wis. sooner or later there won't be enough players left for anything else than the hallelujah plan."
"oi no wait. if you could be considered a religion. tax breaks bro. oh right the topic. i've already said my two cents but still i couldn't help it#deletetheweak"
"the role playing aspects of this mmorpg need to be reinstated and emphasised at some point during the npe, and reinforced to existing players. perhaps via scope news broadcasts, perhaps at a ground level. piracy used to be a legit style of gameplay, now it's just 'griefing' and 'cyberbullying,' which needs to be corrected. some corrections might come from ccp but the playerbase have also adopted that tear collector mantle rather than the 'yarr' mentality (which was actually quite funny). ransoming is pretty much dead because people would rather have the qq and the km than have some fun with another player willing to engage in it. they should want to engage in it, not be convinced there's no hono(u)r left here.to be fair, a lot of this has to do with farmers being outraged that their space chariot can be shot, which is also completely daft. code are doing a good job reminding the highsec zombies that they aren't playing a solo game and there is risk everywhere, but they're being a bit cackhanded about it and this disconnect in perceptions isn't entirely the fault of the people whinging. there aren't that many hono(u)rable space pirates left doing it for a laugh, or even for the isk. some of you are literally tear-farming smackmonkeys any normal human would chin irl.it's mean spirited. there's no fun for people being ganked by a dozen people who do it fulltime, then gangbanged in local/on forums by dozens of hardened trolls who really do want to wind that person up to an abnormal degree. fair play if you can encourage them to get a combat ship and fight back, but actually, that'd be suicide (plus more jeering). so put the fun back in.it's not cyberbullying, but it's not particularly fun gameplay either. unless you're a knobhead."
"slap d:updated the op, sorry about that!"
"nice"
"i would like to focus on the point of attribute removal and the corresponding implants. from reading the minutes, it seems the problem has to do with what mission runners use their lp for.i spoke on this in a few other post before, and imo these are the steps needed to be taken to fix the issue1: rework the lp stores1a: government/navy lp provide the bpcs for items1b: the other faction lp stores provide items used in the development of those bpcs.1c: none-government lp stores could also have bpcs that have \"experimental\" ships/modules\"every npc corp has a history based in the lore - the ship descriptions sometimes point at these, and i believe it is those traits that should be developed on to give unique flavor to some ship hulls. say a roden ship yard vexor - would be like an armor version of the gila, but strong missiles vs drones.maybe even figure out a way that when a corporate ship hull is fitted with that corporations \"experimental\" modules it makes them stronger. this would lead to some really juicy kill mails. i will try to add more once i have a real keyboard. \"the lord loosed upon them his fierce anger all of his fury and rage. he dispatched against them a band of avenging angels\" - the scriptures, book ii, apocalypse 10:1 #npclivesmatter #freetheboobs"
"i hope you have dug your bunker if you do not have a proper replacement ready before you remove the igb. i do not want to nor can i play eve in windowed mode as my pc cannot handle the display/running of 2 clients simultaneously. (full-screen alt-tabbing puts the not active client in a kinda of idle that does not require as much system resources as 2 window mode clients. this is particularly the case with fixed windowed, which i tried for a couple of days and experienced serious lags and frame rate impact with 2 clients running.) i use the igb very mostly for dotlan and general internet searches, which would then require me to alt-tab out of the game to view these aspects, which is absolutely not appealing if i have to do this on a roam or to check system stats/development stats while i hunt npcs."
"really disappointed to learn that there are plans to remove the in-game browser. it has massive utility for a lot of players and would be a huge quality of life backwards step. foxfour's comment on not being poor and buy another monitor or just play windowed is hardly appropriate either. not everyone can do those things and not everyone wants to, or should have to do those things. i thought the whole point was playing how you wanted to play and ccp were big on espousing that philosophy? removing the browser and saying deal with it isn't living up to that. if anything i'd like to see the in-game browser become more feature-rich, let alone removed. the wormholing sites would be a massive hassle without the igb, dotlan and others."
"the loss of the igb would be a major blow. i have always run eve fullscreen and have absolutely no wish to run it in a window. i have one monitor and that fact will never change (no space for another one and no money either). i fully support rivr luzade's point that swapping to an out-of-game browser when hunting npc's (and being shot at) is a very backward step. please keep the igb, or if that's not an option then replace it with a different browser engine viewable from within eve.if the igb is going to go then ccp better get digging that bunker before i have target lock and start chucking torps their way"
"will be waiting for the pve session, but i guess it says a lot that it's been bundled with pvp content (faction warfare)..."
"yep even the largest wall posting company in the world recognises the need to see balances on like/dislikes to reflect real opinion.time to give us our dislike button back please."
"the polarized module could simply enforce a cap on drone control range in the same way it limits resists."
"sounds like something a space-peon might say (joking ).honestly, what's the big deal? if we accept the premise that it's acceptable for a space-tycoon to pay tens of billions for an at/limited circulation ship that will give them a marginal but discernable leg up in space combat, why not allow the same for space thinking?make the neural remap extortionately expensive - and i mean extortionately, in line with how at items are priced by the market - but make it so."
"the eve client had perfectly serviceable ui color sliders, dev time was spent to create ui color presets... and ui color sliders were removed. while the presets were being developed, it would have been fairly trivial to preserve ui color sliders. this dropped ball has been bouncing back at ccp ever since. color me, and quite probably a thousand others: disappointed."
"this would require some forum development time, but how does this sound: csm could start a thread on any topic. they'd have an ability to flag any response as \"off topic\" or \"duplicate\" - and perhaps add a note to the post explaining the reason for flagging in greater detail. this would hide the post text, but anyone could click to expand it, if they wanted. csm and ccp developers would have an option to display responses sorted by \"like\" count, allowing them to quickly review voted feedback, but all unflagged visible responses would be easily readable below posts with \"likes\" and relevant to the topic. potentially controversial: csm might be granted the ability to \"like\" a post multiple times, only in these special threads, to help sort the best responses for developers.hiding text instead of granting the csm the power to delete posts, would be a check on csm bias, since anyone could click to expand the text and make their own decision. if a responder wanted to argue with csm for hiding their posts, any such back and forth discussion would not take up much space, it would just be a list of text-free post headers, (with an 'expand' option,) to ccp developers and casual readers."
"looking forward to the release of minutes for day #2 this is a very dead horse. igb runs on an old (ancient tbqfh) version of chromium with more holes and vulnerabilities than swiss cheese. it would be infeasible to replace that browser with another and update a 3rd party browser in their client every time it changed. as has been said in more places than one (but probably most recently in the very minutes you just read) their plan is to add functionality to crest such that 3rd party devs can create sites that can use that data for bigger and better things than the igb would ever be capable of. only then would they remove the igb.disclaimer: full time wormhole player who relies on igb functionality and who would be greatly inconvenienced without it (or an acceptable replacement)"
"my problem is not that they remove it, my problem is that they will most likely rely on us using oogb, which is particularly irritating and bothersome if you play fullscreen. even in either window-mode, it is bothersome as i have set up my ff browser window, for instance, in a way that would cover 80% of the eve window, whereas my igb window is set up in a way that all the important parts of the ui (overview, dscan/anom scanner, chats, hud, ...) are always visible and never obscure by the browser. i am (not really) looking forward on what ccp is going to do with the browser and browsing experience in eve. judging by past projects and foxfour's way to dismiss the igb, however, i have little hopes that something useful for me will be the outcome."
"i loved the discussion on the purpose of the csm(i did vote)for the last few months i have been asking for something like this - i made a forum f&i post, copied it over to the csm side and hot isd'd.there are also a lot of post that have great discussion but get locked do to people purposely trolling the idea or just not providing decent feedback. i just started my 3rd year of eve and believe in being a vocal member on the forums - because i want this game to last a long time and to keep being great.+1 from me for csm controlled discussions on some nda items. \"the lord loosed upon them his fierce anger all of his fury and rage. he dispatched against them a band of avenging angels\" - the scriptures, book ii, apocalypse 10:1 #npclivesmatter #freetheboobs"
"regarding the \"purpose of the csm\" discussion of day 2, the part about creating \"closed discussion groups\" :i think it's a very good idea, but the possibility of being part of one of these groups should be advertised so that anyone can \"apply\" to join. csm members should still be picking members and deciding who gets in (and out), but the groups shouldn't consist only of people close to csm members or loud enough to be noticed on the forums. if i'm some random guy with good ideas but no ties to anyone in the csm at all, i want to have a chance to be included too.why not have a csm member or two in charge of each discussion group created ? their role would be :1. to animate the debates in their discussion group2. to moderate the dicussions and remove toxic participants3. to invite people in if they feel they can contribute : these could be either people they know, suggestions from other csm members, or strangers applying to join the group - after an interview, the group managers could decide to take them in or not.as a player willing to participate in such dicussion groups, i'd go check out a list of all current discussion groups and their associated csm members. if i feel like i can contribute in a meaningful way to one of the discussion groups, i can just contact the csm member in charge and have a chat with him for a chance to be included if he feels i can be useful enough."
"in regards to session: purpose of the council. i am one of those players who know what the csm is. i read the minutes, i engage csm members(sometimes) but if i could, i would vote blank. this topic was a good one imo. lots of good issues was brought to the table, but i feel like you jumped over or missed a few important ones. transparency and accountability. you discussed csm accountability towards ccp with the new suggestion of how the csm should function, but not towards the player base and as i read it, the transparency will continue to be non existent. this is in my opinion the biggest issues of the csm. i can not vote on or feel represented by a bunch of players, who isn't accountable for what they tell ccp because of the lack of transparency. sure, the minutes helps, but they are often not very detailed(as we saw last year) or the level of detail is at best unknown. when you vote for the major of reykjavik he gives you his political views, but after he is elected, you see his actions and judge him upon these. we don't have the option to judge our csm upon their actions, cause we don't know what is going on in those smoke filled chat rooms behind the curtains. and without this transparency and accountability, the csm will always just be a group of players, voted in due to their celebrity status who then receive a higher level of personal influence over the game. i like the idea of more townhalls, but i am a bit sad that the session ended in only discussing this, cause an entire overhaul of the csm as an institute is needed if i am not to be left with the image that the csm receive special privileges for their personal gain from ccp. i want to stress, before you ban me, that i am not saying the csm gets any favoritism from the ccp. what i am saying is that without transparency, we don't know. if the csm member is arguing for the better of the game, based on a wide range of feedback, then there is no favoritism in play, but if the csm member argue his own personal opinion or the opinion of the people he play with, then his position in the csm gives him an advantage over the rest of the playerbase by making his personal opinions weigh more than those of other players, and if ccp reacts on that feedback and use it, then we're talking favoritism. ofc. that favoritism is based upon a vote, but lets be honest.. the \"vote for csm\" is completely irrelevant and useless without transparency and accountability. so while i am super happy about the dissussion about the csms role, i feel like you jumped over or skipped the most important issues of the csm. hugs"
"i just hope ccp is discerning with the info they give the csm that is under nda. half of the members on the csm are there because of arrogant and very visible collusion among the power blocs, they play the game in the exact same fashion. they are the exact type of people that take advantage of the info in the nda on the macro level, in fact i am certain that is half the reason they are there.i am sure they also give a crap about meaningful change on some level, but ccp should not forget the type of people they are dealing with, and that type of person does what they do."
"i'm sorry, i disagree. it would be fairly trivial to attach the likes of firefox into the game. firefox is open source. likewise chromium is the source for the chrome browser and is still updated. there is no need to update it every time it changes, they could quite happily only use the important security updates. they clearly already have a wrapper to put the browser in in-game, so no need to develop that either. crest isn't a solution to the issues that would be caused by the loss of the igb, it won't have the functionality and opening an oogb isn't a good solution in a game where being alt-tabbed can get you killed and as other's have said, forcing people to multi-window/play windowed isn't an appropriate solution and reeks of elitism. there's no need to apply each update to a browser, hell this one hasn't been updated in years by the looks of it and it's still adequate to the cause."
"edit: as i stated in the former post - i wanted to sit down and hash this idea out on a hybrid skill system. here it is. hello again!another idea here from amarisen gream (some people like me and others hate me, i know). if you have seen me in the forums, you have probably seen a number of post by me about the skill/sp system over the years, and here comes another one.first the tl:dr! (i feel a picture help, so i will work on something for it)1: introduce a hybrid skilling system2: general skills and groups would be a collective pool. example - armor skills would be one group. lasers another. each race/faction would have their own spaceship command group. 3: advanced/specialization skills would remain independent. 4: goal = a system that allows easier training on the general basic skill sets (like core skills), while maintaining a system that allows players to focus their character on a \"trade\"5: sp in groups would apply to all know/unknown skills in the group - a player could train sp in to a group, yet not have injected all the skills in the group. this would allow players who may not be able to afford or inject a skill book to continue skilling toward it. (replaces the request by people to allow injection/placement of skills that they do not have the prerequisites for.) example - player trains into the armor group, has the meet the requirements for the resistance compensation skills, yet has not bought or injected them, could still in theory be skilling toward them; so once they buy the books and inject they would have access to them and at whatever level they have sp toward.now for the long part: last week, as i was reading the csm minutes as well as a few other post on the f&i, it got me thinking of a different option for how the skill system could work.i made a general post in the comment thread for the csm minutes, yet i felt like part of the idea was missing and not so well hashed out.updated idea with listing of possible groupings.the basic idea is that the skill groups would act more like a skill pool. so instead of always skulking for a single skill, players skill into the group and unlock skills and skill levels as the progress.the skill groups would take the current total sp for those skills at max and that would be the max sp for the group. example: the armor group would have a total of say 5 million sp. as you trained/supplied sp to the group you would level as well as unlock more skills. the main issue that i kept thinking about, how would it work for the major groups like gunnery or missiles or spaceship command.it isn't a perfect idea - but i think it will work for the more general skill in those groups. the primary group of gunnery would stay and putting sp in this group would skill up the gunnery support skills, like controlled burst; while sub-gunnery groups would deal with the weapon family.spaceship command would have sub-groups focused on the different races: amarr, caldari etc., while the general stuff would be under the main group.what about t2/t3 ships? i would leave these in their own place. they are specialized options for players and should remain independent of a general group skill system.\"the lord loosed upon them his fierce anger all of his fury and rage. he dispatched against them a band of avenging angels\" - the scriptures, book ii, apocalypse 10:1 #npclivesmatter #freetheboobs"
"here are two quotes from ccp foxfour about the igb difficulties:[link to post:][link to looong post:]"
"hello,i'm very interested in being in on one of these expert groups. so hype i honestly did not expect to see that and a \"individuality vs. uniformity\" session. good stuff. going to call mannbjorn out on \"ui colors are hard to change\", that's nonsense. it's a color vector. to turn up one or two values a notch so the contrast doesn't literally hurt my eyes is all i want."
"source:"
"anti-amarr missions from gallente agents? no thanks, that doesn't make any sense (either logically or from an *shudder* rp perspective). i'm sure the other anti-faction missions bear scant resemblance to how things should be distributed. while i'm not sure of ccp's original reasoning behind this - perhaps so as to not make lp store items incredibly easily accessible - it really doesn't make sense, especially after regular missions have been subject to a load of rebalancing in a hundred different areas. people can just pop down to jita and throw up buy orders for the tags required.is there really any reason why the enemies presented in an anti-faction mission shouldn't reflect the actual enemies of the agent who gave you the mission? the downside of doing these missions has always been and will always be the trashing of your standings - a fair price to pay.i suggested this years ago and i'm sure it crops up occasionally, but let's do this ftw!e: argh! hoisted by my own petard! i have reported it, don't worry m&cers - it'll be gone soon"
"the amarr and gallente don't exactly like each other. i'm not sure if it makes sense or not from the lore. that said as far as i'm aware the main way for minmatar tags to enter the game is enemies abound 5/5 which requires 3 fight gallente missions first. i'm not sure what the drops in fw are like, but i'm not sure too many people are killing all and looting in those missions. same with level 5s. sounds like most people are focused on blitzing those style missions. that said the tag drops could use a bit of a rebalance as some you can buy for blow npc price, and others cost 10 times npc price because of the drop ratio. for instance enemies abound drops the battleship sized tags at a ratio of 14:41 a popular item such as the cn bcu bpc requires 49:74"
"yeah, that's the thing - amarr and gallente aren't buddy buddies, but the gal lp stores demand caldari tags vovanyway, you're absolutely right about the massively disproportionate ratio of bs-to-other tags dropped - that at least needs a seeing-to :)"
"fairly certain this is by design to create a reason for asset movement as well as create market price diversity, at least in theory. wanna cash in those tags? move them to ammar space and risk getting them taken away if you do it foolishly. to lazy or scared to move them and want instant isk? sell them for under market value at your local trade hub allowing a trader to move them or resell them for profit."
"thread has been moved to assembly hall."
"well, i haven't done anti-empire encounter missions for a very long time so i could be wrong but if i recall correctly, i believe gallente offer encounter missions against both amarr and caldari, basically it's like 'my allies enemy is my enemy too'.i don't really see a problem with that. hell, it's probably the same with all the other empire factions as well. however i do believe the amount of tags being dropped in those missions should be buffed and the amount of tags required to purchase items in lp stores should be nerfed.dmc"
"hello. i do not have the greatest eye sight and often find it's difficult to see where my ship is in game. i would like to have an option where i can enable an indicator of my character.it could be something like a bracket in overlay settingsor an option to enable a circle around your own character (like the circle when you hover over yourself)anyway, hope to hear back. thanks.syyg"
"this is a cool idea, but what you're basically proposing is wormhole space, or new wormhole space.you have systems you can only reach by wormholes (check), with no stargates (check), with difficult, weird enemies (check), that don't show up on the map (check). it would have binary stars (check, kind of).now you're mentioning they're rare, and nobody will see them twice, but that's where this won't work. ccp originally intended wormhole space to be this mysterious thing nobody stayed in, but players stayed there. if these spaces existed, i guarantee you players would keep scan alts in them to find ways back, or anchor citadels there, or both.so i agree with you, but i also think most of what you've said describes what already exists. you could just say \"add 500 new wormhole systems\" and it would be similar."
"i must say chance your response to the op is very disappointing. instead of shutting down the conversation why not help expand upon it. the op has an idea and is trying to articulate it. what is required is input from others that might help the idea become something greater than itself and worthy of ccp investigation.for example, as an explorer i agree with the op: there is nothing \"new\" in eve that has not already beenn see or documented in eve. so, what is exploration?exploration: it is the discovery of the unknown. simple.eve exploration used to be the mastery of the procedures to discover known things like ladar sites etc. odyssey saw those procedures as a barrier to entry and made the \"profession\" of exploration available within hours of a new pilots life in new eden.as already mentioned, the need to scan to discover was also reduced by the ship borne \"discovery scanner\". now you only need to scan if you see something worth your while when you enter a system.with this in mind are we really exploring anything any more?the op suggests something unique that only one or few can see, using an existing mechanic was suggested as a conduit to that discovery. let's take that idea further.wormholes (not the systems they lead to) are a common naturally occurring phenomena throughout new eden. interestingly these wh all lead to the same place: sleeper (and drift?) locations. unfortunately we all know what exists in the sleeper domain.so lets expand on the op's idea. unique. how about a rare wh that does not appear on the discovery scanner. a wh that only people that take the time to seek it out will find. once found the explorer jumps through into a system so unique it simply does not exist until someone enters. once inside there is the potential to discover absolutely nothing. then again there is the potential to discover those things the op covered.how could this work and who would benefit?maybe this exploration is the end game for those with both the skills and experience in order to find these \"off grid\" whs? maybe this could be a chance for ccp to let loose with ideas that could be tested live in single systems? imagine the art department going wild with ideas and creations that they could not otherwise explore let alone enable.so maybe these destination systems are procedurally created and only exist as long as someone is in or logged off in the system. maybe there is a large database of objects that can be picked from to form these systems. a database that can be tweaked, added to or taken from as ccp sees fit. maybe within that database are items that need to be discovered to help drive the lore or create new modules through player r&d. maybe the destination system is so barren the only thing worth taking is screenshots: screenshots so beautiful that a dedicated site is made to highlight the beauty of eve (not necessarily new eden) and the talent of the artists. maybe players can be called upon to contribute art and other items?the whs themselves could also be governed by mass. maybe only one ship can enter. maybe there is no limit. maybe and entire alliance moves into this destination system to reap any economic benefits it might have until the last ship leaves and the system blinks out of existence.there are so many possibilites to the op's suggestion that all it takes is a little brainstorming. i for one would welcome such an addition to eve. a chance to explore would be a very real and welcome addition to eve.so, chance, adding 500 new systems is not a solution and not remotely similar."
"one would arguably add to the op and suggest helpful critique of it should one agree with it - however, if you don't agree, there's no point beyond saying \"not my cup of tea, thanks\" (you could also suggest reasons why not - optional - which chance did)."
"i will let you take a wild guess as to why your post has not received any likes so far."
"because people weren't able to dislike it?"
"oh boy, here we go with the salt again...okay, question (attacker pov):if you break off entosing a structure at some point, then return to it later while it still displays the timer and you continue entosing it, will the defender get another notification?"
"in my 5 years of playing this game, i think i've remapped maybe 3 times. thank you evemon."
"wtf did i just read? f this, time to grab a hecate and go do some mission flipping."
"long ago i read a proposal to add this functionality to the launcher. some players just aren't comfortable messing with their file system."
"ccp foxfour,i saw that you are considering charging for different cloak colors and it made think of the old cloaking sound as well as the old strip miner sound.is there a way to make different sounds available for items and then charge for them or is that not possible (non-coder here )?"
"i think the ccp dev was referring only to the csm members themselves when he mentioned everyone using multiple monitors. if he meant eve players as a group then he is seriously mistaken. not everyone is as committed to eve as the csm are (le gasp!), nor do we have the spare cash to grab monitors due to a single game making good use of them. try adding \"multiple monitors\" to the minimum computer specs for eve and see what response this gets from new players looking at trying the game. might be a different viewpoint entirely. i really despise the \"buy another monitor\" comment that was made. elitist comment, expecting that anyone who dares to play eve had better have a setup that supports multiple monitors? if that is the case then it comes down to ccp having the player spend their money to fix an issue that ccp creates within eve. and since ccp seems cool with that idea lets apply it to both sides for a second, shall we? (warning: internet sarcasm!) if i get to fix their issues then they can fix my issues. sounds fair to me at least...personally, i would need another computer desk, computer case, power supply, oh and lets add in a new os since you won't be supporting mine anymore, and obviously a shiny new video card to run both monitors on as i doubt mine would handle twice the visual real estate in game. but no worries, i will get that new monitor like you told me to, right? (end of internet sarcasm.)seriously though, my point is that it is hardly just \"go buy another monitor\" for many to fix things in the manner suggested via additional hardware on our side.expecting your players to shell out more real life money, so that your company can claim that dropping the igb will not be an issue to anyone is being deliberately blind to anyone's concerns.and is a different 3rd party program to overlay things on screen a fix? is it secure and safe? no vulnerabilities in the program, no unsafe sites claiming to be the place to download this \"overwulf\" program that was vaguely mentioned in passing? is the program going to be updated and work with all browsers? i think there are good reasons why your csm is asking you to do this after they leave their positions and don't have to deal with the fallout. get the fixes in and facts straight before you decide when/if the igb dies, or grab an officer bunker to shelter in."
"ccp fozzie,reading the minutes regarding sov, i see that sort refers to the task of hacking and guarding the hacker as boring, i would tend to agree.have you considered adding abilities to the command nodes that only become apparent as soon as they are hacked?for example: (just using stuff you have in game) consider each node randomly being able to do damage , web, scram, nothing or any combo.so the attacker hacks the node and it might have no defenses say 50% of the time but it might web the attacker or in very rare instances be a sentry, web, scram node. it would keep things interesting . perhaps there would also be an anchorable that increases the chances of a each node having a defense that would need to be placed in a particular citadel so attackers might want to kill that citadel as a preface to a genuine invasion."
"something you're missing is it also includes the blue loot from wormholes.and to answer the questions as well, buy and sell orders are affected by player activity, adjusting by up to 10% when interacted with. that's on an order by order basis, rather than a global one."
"before they changed the fw plex capture mechanics circa 3 years ago (maybe 4), you could farm faction tags by staying out of capture range and killing the faction rat spawns."
"good point, however, looking at the list of anti-empire missions offered in gallente space (my memory is failing so please excuse any omissions!):- in the midst (amarr with a tiny caldari contingent)- surprise surprise (amarr with a small caldari contingent)- pot and kettle (amarr)- smash the supplier (amarr)they seem to be primarily anti-amarr. logic would dictate that the federation's second-tier enemies would appear in a secondary capacity, not primary.anyway, good points made by all :)"
"couldn't agree more. i travel with the overlay on just so i know where my ship is relative to everything else, as lets face it most people that do any pvp tend to play zoomed out."
"i like the idea of interesting content that needs to be found instead of handed out on a platter like it is with exploration sites today.i'm not sure wh's are the best way to accomplish this goal however.you could get something similar using regular k-space and a new probe or device to help scan down interesting things. i would propose the following:- these new \"sites\" must not appear on the probing window and be hidden until actively looked for.- they must be somewhat rare, but not so rare you look for a week and never find one.- should be end-game exploration content. high skills should be required to find one.- need to vary enough that you can't just farm them by doing the same thing each time like limited sleeper sites.one idea:have the site chain, where you warp to one and then need to find the next in a route that eventually leads you to some sort of prize at the end. have each part of this chain have some content, like a destroyed outpost or whatever. and have a story, that is revealed as the user moves down the chain.would be very interesting if this lead you way off grid or into interesting places like a nebula or something."
"if this is true, then why didn't ccp just make it so you couldn't anchor anything in them?"
"\"restrict from self destruct while inside a pos\"--> how about not.... this would disrupt the playstyle of the \"corp heist\" player, one of the great stories of infiltrations, of stolen and destroyed assets."
"elfyhiro wiggletoes, chronos aion and littlekillah anomalie,thank you guys very much, i appreciate your support.option 2 of the proposal seems to be the favorite with everyone including me.dmc"
"bullying and griefing. seriously, this is not the place to whine about code. there are plenty of other places to do that.what is missing from the whole hyped npe is explaining how rough things can easily get once you undock. beyond the pat phrasing, eve is a cold cruel place that yadda yadda blargh, other than in one (maybe two?) career missions that require a ship loss, ganking is glossed over.perhaps if that lesson was put in place early and relatively often in that first 30 days, awareness would stand a chance of kicking in and you'd better watch your local, overview, and d-scan. if i wanted a completely safe game to play, i'd be feeding a neopet! but we've got to face the technicolor writing on the wall. many new players are not rough and tumble mmo players, especially in today's special snowflake culture. if they don't grasp ganks happen, is that their fault alone?or are the lessons to be learned not even on the table outside those advertisement 15 second blerbs of 'we is adult mmo, no kiddie pool level for yuuu!'and no, ever-ganking them in 1.0 systems is not the way to teach. that's a good way to make sure we don't keep them around past that 30 days, and there's one less contributor to all of new eden. no bubble wrapping r00kies, but perhaps a better and longer intro to the daily insanity that is eve?>jeven"
"has the minutes from day 4 been forgotten, posted somewhere else(google didn't show anything) or do i just have to be patient (not my strongest ability unfortunately :d )? really looking forward to read the fw part of it."
"patient, i'm afraid. falcon was copy editing a lot of the minutes after work, and on friday we went out for dinner, which kind of got rid of that time."
"any comments from the csm on this?"
"what would you want to see changed about wh's?do you have the time it takes with a full time job and all?and what is it that you think you would be better than the current csm's thats representing the wh community?"
"the link to the csm x minutes doesn't work"
"hey guys, i'm badoodle. i have spent the better part of my time in this game dedicated to blowing people's stuff up. i've lived in wormholes since two months in and have tried to rat in a cap-unstable raven like the rest of us. i've seen lots of different aspects of the game changed, mostly for the better and feel like i've got an outlook that can benefit eve online as a whole.my agenda - i live in wormholes, they are important to me. anything concerning pve/pvp ship mass changes,pve tweaks, wormhole mass changes, wormhole spawn rates, wormhole effect rebalances, wormhole life timers, asset security and capital re balances affect me on a daily basis. this has given me a chance to stay very caught up, and current on almost all aspects of wh gameplay.that being said - i spend a considerable amount of my time in spaces other than wormholes, including but not limited to - highsec ganking, fw, light (t1) industry, hauling, wardecs, ded sites,market warfare, drug production, gas reactions, killright scamming, mission grief/bait and so on. i get around, and have opinions concerning most aspects of eve world since i frequent them often.i also sport the unpopular opinion that i will miss our good friend the pos, there was so much room for activities.my \"platform\" can be summed up with the following mumblings.something something wormholes.something something freighters.something something fozziesov.something something wardec mechanics.some nonsense concerning null sov structures.stop decreasing c5 - null spawn rates/times!(also the new map sucks, fix fix fix before use)help me help you help us. - badoodle squadtl;dr badoodle for csm ++++)))))this message was dictated not read."
"-reserved-"
"as i have come to see it...many of the skills their requirements and what they allow access to is so messed up and so 10 years old, that a major update should be done on fine tuning the skills themselves.-ccp does balance pass after balance bass on ships and modules, yet imo many of the skills could use a strong pass-if you followed the csm minutes thread, i made a post on there about general group sp pooling-- groups like armor, shieilds navigation and other things that are general (fitting skills) would all have a shared pulled of sp. you'd be able to level and unlock the skills (after you buy and inject the book) even if you don't already have the skill. i.e. new player starts putting sp into the armor group, something comes up and he takes two weeks off (say computer dies) he finally gets back on, instead of having no skilled anything for 2 weeks, he has applied sp for the last two weeks to all the armor skills in a progressive since.the gunnery skills would have general (controlled burst) and then sub-group like laser/hybrid/projectile.all advanced or specialized skills would remain as they are, as indented skills.1: many skills are placed in a group which = the total amount of sp those skills would take independently to train.2: sub-groups would be created for faction ships, and gunnery/missile skills.3: advanced/specialized skills remain independent as this allows the player to fine tune/specialize their character.a: general skills are considered \"core skills\"b: advanced skills are like \"small pulse laser specialization\"\"the lord loosed upon them his fierce anger all of his fury and rage. he dispatched against them a band of avenging angels\" - the scriptures, book ii, apocalypse 10:1 #npclivesmatter #freetheboobs"
"more immersion in new eden would be nice. especially being able to walk through your hangar and see all your ships. walking through the ships. walking in the new citadels. inviting your friends to hang out. gamble at bars or casinos. it would add so much to gameplay.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i agree, those things would be nice to see."
"this feature was in the earlier ambulation prototypes, as your player reacting to other players and npcs. it keyed off standings.in fact, there's a ton of really cool design work gathering dust. oh, well.i would certainly not expect anything until the giant push to drag eve into the second decade has finished; i.e., when they've polished up the new shiny space experience and let us build gates to it, then polished it up further as we discover issues that slipped through qa. after that, anything's possible.in the mean time, what we're looking at is 20% projects and part-time prototyping work by very small teams at the absolute utmost. what they can accomplish in a few years with the right tools will still be remarkable, but it won't be for public consumption. for that, ccp would have to make a big push, which means that they'd have to have everyone happy with the space game and the will to give the project another go. whether that will exists is an open question."
"tl;dr gallente navy ships are used 3 times more than caldari ships >> impacts lp values >> impacts warzone.i know they are looking at changes for faction war and lp markets should be part of the conversation because it's very imbalanced atm. everyone in pvp knows theres a big variance in terms of the popularity of certain faction ships and there probably always will be, but extra care should be taken with navy ships to ensure these imbalances are not so exaggerated that they start impacting on the warzone and currently ship imbalance is having a huge impact on the warzone. i've done some research based on the number of navy ships destroyed for the months january to august because that was a simple way to gauge the turnover of these markets, by calculating how much lp was flushed out of the market for each faction we get a fair idea of the demand for lp.overall lp destroyed by factiongallente: 1 678 780 000 lpamarr: 1 332 336 000 lpminmattar: 954 710 000 lpcaldari: 626 605 000 lpgallente have consistently been 1-2 tiers ahead of calmil and as such their pilots will have earned nearly twice as much lp over these months, so their isk/lp payouts should be severely hurting, they should be down to selling navy cap boosters, faction ammo, and implants at this stage... but they're not, because their lp market is irrepressible. on the other hand caldari lp should be trading for much more, especially since they put a bigger proportion of it into ihubs but not only is it not, the reverse is true. gallente lp is worth about 20-30% more despite them trading far more of it because their ships are in high demand. to put it into context the lp cashout of the navy vexor was worth more than the cash out of the entire caldari ship line up combined... how is that not broke?i didn't spend much time in the other warzone and the gap is less pronounced but it's still too big, and it's again mostly due to the imbalance of ships in the frig/cruiser classes.here's a full breakdown by ship:faction frigates1. navy slicer: 41,281 destroyed = 412 281 000 lp2. fed navy comet: 39,150 destroyed = 391 500 000 lp3. fleet firetail: 21,435 destroyed = 214 350 000 lp4. navy hookbill: 11,337 destroyed = 113 370 000 lpfaction cruisers1. vexor navy: 18,813 destroyed = 846 585 000 lp2. navy omen: 9,459 destroyed = 425 655 000 lp3. scythe fi: 4,418 destroyed = 198 810 000 lp4. stabber fi: 3,890 destroyed = 175 050 000 lp5. aug navy issue: 3,030 destroyed = 136 350 000 lp6. exequror navy issue: 1,861 destroyed = 83 745 000 lp7. navy caracal: 1,251 destroyed = 56 295 000 lp8. navy osprey: 612 destroyed = 27 540 000 lpfaction battlecruisers1. navy brutix: 1,227 destroyed = 122 700 000 lp2. fleet cane: 930 destroyed = 93 000 000 lp3. navy drake: 814 destroyed = 81 400 000 lp4. navy harbinger: 738 destroyed = 73 800 000 lpfaction battleships1. raven navy issue: 976 destroyed = 244 000 000 lp2. navy apocalypse: 927 destroyed = 231 750 000 lp3. tempest fleet issue: 602 destroyed = 150 500 000 lp4. navy megathron: 570 destroyed = 142 500 000 lp5. typhoon fleet issue: 492 destroyed = 123 000 000 lp6. scorpion navy issue: 416 destroyed = 104 000 0007. navy dominix: 367 destroyed = 91 750 0008. navy geddon: 210 destroyed = 52 500 000isk is just as important in faction war as it is in any other part of space, caldari have been the poverty militia for a long time now and it's mostly thanks to the state of their ships. would also be nice for calmil pilots to be able to use more of the stuff they buy on the lp store in the warzone instead of hauling it all to jita.what i would like:ccp to acknowledge the imbalance and make it a priority to buff the struggling minmattar/caldari navy ships asap: hookbill, firetail, navy osprey, navy caracal, and stabber fleet issue all need buffs. having 3 navy missile cruisers is too much to give them all unique useful roles so one of the caldari cruisers should be converted to a rail hull. vni clearly needs to be nerfed."
"i always knew the gallente were best at everythingbut that they are the best ccp lapdog?who would have known?!on serious note, always thought it was something fishy with the lp. galls had a good ratio for way too long despite how much of their lp is in pretty much everything you see nowadays. fed navy drone tracking, navy hobs and ogres, fed navy webs, etc... and that's after the faction has been in tier 3 for a long time as well.i'm curious what you consider as \"lp destroyed\" - cashed in or actual assets destroyed? because that doesn't necessarily mean poverty. calmil farmers probably cash out on datacores more often, than anything else. the navy drake is getting a buff, but i doubt anything will change on the value of lp any time soon."
"in eve demand is driven by destruction, and the best way to gauge demand for lp in the case of faction warfare is to look at how many navy ships were lost, and multiply that by the lp cost of each ship. it's more reliable than any metrics you'll get from market data in trade hubs. e.g. a player buys a navy raven from you that's 250k lp cashed in and you might forget about it and move on, but from the point of view of the overall market for sprot lp that 250k lp isn't really cashed out until the ship gets destroyed. the player can still sell the ship to someone else at a later date effectively cancelling his original purchase, and it can change hands multiple times, each transaction registering on the graphs of trade hubs but still only 1 purchase from the lp store and only 250k lp sold. only when the ship gets destroyed is your 250k sprot lp consumed and flushed from the market, the player might chose to buy another or he might not it doesn't matter, he can't sell it on again. compare the pve ships caldari have with high volume ships like the fed navy comet, or the navy vexor, those ships are constantly getting destroyed always creating fresh demand for more fdu lp. that's a good thing, but caldari and minmattar really need a couple of ships like that too or they are at a disadvantage. of course there are other items too, but players have no way to get consumption stats for those, and they look pretty well balanced on the face of it. some other items like faction ammo and navy capboosters as well but those have much lower isk/lp payouts because you are competing directly with high sec mission runners in these markets unlike in ships where you get a discount, so when you're reduced to trading that stuff the bottom has well and truly fallen out of your market. ships usually offer the best isk/lp payouts and they are higher volume as well - either way the imbalance in the navy ships is too big to ignore and it's bound to be affecting lp values. at over 1000isk/lp the market for navy vexors alone was worth about a trillion isk for gallente millitia members since january - that's more than your entire line of navy ships has made for your militia."
"i think this is an interesting analysis. i tend to agree with your analysis ships destroyed seems a decent way to guage demand for the ship. to be fair though i think gallente ships just happen to be the flavor of the month. (drone buffs and hull rigs may be 2 of the reasons) before it was minmatar and before that amarr. i suppose caldari is about due. the fleet issue hurricane seems to be getting the most out of the buffs to navy bcs. but honestly the republic fleet lp has been flowing like a river for so long i think it will take years to try to bail the lp market out of this mess. if ccp were smart they would introduce a nerf to level 4 mission lp at the same time they introduce these bcs in a hope to get rid of some this lp. keep in mind that minmatar and caldari have easy fw missions. so they will always have horrible returns. gallente have difficult fw missions so their lp will naturally stand better. however it is true that if the gallente ships isk/lp was higher then they should be more expensive. more expensive should mean they are not blown up as often. but we see the opposite. this does indeed suggest the gallente ships are more powerfull (at least for pvp which is likely the most important aspect to keeping demand high). i am surprised there are not more hookbills used. i don't think ships alone will really help here. they are too few to effect the huge amounts of lp that have been and are being earned. as soon as the price goes up the market will get flooded with them and the price will settle back down. ccp has to stem the flow of lp - especially from running level 4 fw missions. as far as other items beside ships, navy cap boosters are only sold in fw lp stores. but even there when minmatar lp is handed out like water all the items in their store will drop in price. fw exclusive items like cap boosters as well as implants. many faction items may get rebalanced with module tiericide. for example gallente webs are very strong faction webs. the caldari scrams and disruptors are pretty weak. all faction modules should end up being the same satrength after tiericide. the winners and losers of this shake up are hard to predict because you also have to factor in the cost of the related tags. but really it is the faction war lp (possibly incursions as well i am really not that familiar with their store) that has effectively killed the lp markets throughout eve. but the lp values are all so deflated that i think it is hard to put much significance on it anymore. it's really a shame because lp stores used to be a good way to make isk if you were willing to put some thought in it. it's another facet of the game that has basically been rubbed out due to the fw lp flood. hopefully ccp will stop the bleeding soon. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"the thing is gallente were able to flush nearly 1.7 billion lp from their market through ships, caldari only managed to flush about a third of that, and minnmattar just under a billion. if caldari and minmattar were swimming in lp from missions and all things were equal the opposite would be true. at the end of the day it doesn't matter how much lp they make it's not possible to sell ships that nobody wants. it's not just flavor of the month/year/epoch either, the t1 caracal is the most popular cruiser at the minute, the cerb is also becoming cancerous, and yet hardly anybody wants a navy missile cruiser? they were poorly designed, when you look at the stats you get from them and compare it with a t1 cruiser you wonder why you'd pay so much extra for a hull that doesn't deliver much more than it's t1 counterpart. the navy osprey isn't far off imo, it's fast and has the right bonuses for kiting and anti support roles... but it has so low dps. lower than a t1 caracal, and unlike the t1 caracal the dps is locked into kinetic. remove kinetic lock and change the utility high for an extra launcher - problem solved. more people will choose it over the t1 caracal because it will be clearly better as it should be for the price.the navy caracal is useless. it's too slow to dictate range it doesn't have enough mids to fit full tackle and tank for brawling, and it's bonuses are poor 5%rof + 5% application means you have to use ham's or heavies and both are terrible weapons for cruiser size hulls because they don't apply well to other cruiser size hulls, so they only look respectable on battlecruisers. like i said before: trying to make 3 unique and useful navy missile cruisers is never going to happen and as worst in class the navy caracal has to go it's an absolute turkey. it should be replaced by a navy moa with bonuses to hybrid range and dps, why don't we have a rail based navy ship with optimal bonuses anyway? that might actually be useful.the hookbill, firetail, and stabber just need more fitting resources. the hookbill has less fitting resources than a kestrel despite having an extra slot to fill it should also get the same 25% dmg bonus as the slicer/firetail or a couple of drones because even though it has an extra turret it does less dps and it's kinetic locked.if these ships were fixed it would bring more income to minmattar/caldari pilots and corps, which would make the warzones more competitive and benefit everyone."
"ohh never even considered that :d that would be awful... here kids, have this bag full of....... nothing... nda in your face"
"still no notes for day 4..."
"any news on the notes for day 4?"
"personally i was a bit bewildered by the qa session, i'm assuming then that none of the csm plays eve on a mac or was the state of the mac client just the giant broken elephant in the room no one would talk about?"
"they did talk about eve boot(strap) and how it used to work for mac but now doesn't. so it seems someone did play on a mac. \"the lord loosed upon them his fierce anger all of his fury and rage. he dispatched against them a band of avenging angels\" - the scriptures, book ii, apocalypse 10:1 #npclivesmatter #freetheboobs"
"i think sion made allot of valid points about csm. but i would suggest making it open to everyone and just weeding out people who can't follow simple yet strict rules. ccp could just make a csm forum that is carefully moderated by the csm. if people can't be constructive in it then they will have their posts deleted. this would allow transparency and also allow quality discussions about complex topics that csm may not have a full grasp of. perhaps one forum rule could be that players can only choose one or two of the topics to post in. that way players will only post in topics that they really do know and care about. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"we had a talk on voice comms with friends about the current power-bloc situation in the eve and relative stalemate of null sector. we observe the changes in sovereignty mechanics and we see incoming changes to structures. however those are just changes in mechanics and are not directly an impulse to \"plant the flag\" somewhere or go into the conflict. during the talk a question was raised why would an alliance go into war? all answers boiled down into \"touch the moon\". eventually came an idea out:moon mining should deplete the moonsthe following is just a crude idea to give a picture:moon scanning reveals only the biggest resource field of the given moon goo, ie. there can be more of it. moon mining depletes the scanned resource field in the similar manner as by planet interaction, ie. non-lineary in horizont of months. rescanning of the depleted moon reveals another biggest resource field of the given moon goo, if there is some. moon goo regenerates, but...the most important part about this proposal is the regeneration of the moon goo as this should be the key to stimulate the conflict in the new eden.basically we want to keep the amount of the given moon goo in the new eden sort of constant... if you sum the resource in the galaxy, you should have more and less the same amount of it as we have effectively today, in order to keep the market and industry chains generally in balance.once moon gets depleted, there should be more options what happens governed by rng: moon should have a resonable probability to regenerate the same resource in the form of the new field, for example 50%. in this case, industry characters relax as they do not need to touch and move anything. moon gets dry and does not regenerate any resource of the given type. this can be as well a new but very weak field. let's say 20% chance. the resource regenerates in the form of some galactical event, super nova explosion or whatever your heart please, in a completely different moon. the target moon can be bind by some rules... if you want to make borders conflict happens, it will move into different constellation or it moves into a different region... of course, the moon mining would have to be revisited a bit in order to simplify placement of the mining equipment to balance out the work of setting up the mining infrastructure/chains with the need of moving them now and then.the whole idea should provide a systematic conflict stimulation."
"do you know what pain in the ass it is to re-configure your tower or to tear it down and setup elsewhere with the current ui and mechanics ?if there will be moons that never have materials on them, that can be used as pure reaction towers i am fine ;)i agree, moons are currently the only reason to fight over. but i ma not sure that an alliance would move because of moons, dropping all their indexes and re-grind them after pushing the current owner of the space away. they will simply leash their logies to operate theses remote moons and maybe send a tengu fleet to defend them.nomadic allies that have no sov will be mostly profiteering from this in my opinion, as pl already does right now with their current moons.this is just my opinion on this matter."
"of course, the whole ui and mechanics around moon goo has to be simplified to balance the pain of moving towers around etc. that is the work for devs should they find the proposal or rather idea interesting enough.my proposal is an idea for an in-built conflict generating mechanism which get never tired of bringing the conflict around."
"but i don't want to pay a billion isk for a hac."
"therefore non-linear mining... you get upfront most of material and in declining phase you can start moving towers.not to speak that price is connected to balancing of the whole affair, what is devs part to do it right."
"you still want to bring in massive disruption to supply, which is going to spike the prices."
"@lykouleon: i see i am a bit late to the table... thanks for pointing it out...@danika princip: what you are afraid off is rather implementation detail. if devs would do it right, there will be minimal spike."
"i often wondered why ccp always seems to make mechanics that encourage people to stay in one place, as opposed to making mechanics that encourage people to keep roaming and destroying. it seems all the alliances that like to pvp are leaving null sec sov space.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"i don't think the hookbill or caracal are all that bad but i do agree with your overall point. and i am surprised more hookbills aren't sold. originally people didnt' fly hookbills because they were considered overpowered and you didn't get fights. i really don't know if that is still the case. i do think the ships need to be more balanced. imo gallente ships are clearly the most powerful. but you could start selling all the current gallente faction ships in the minmatar lp store and only have the minmatar faction ships in gallente store and you would see the gallente ships drop in price to where the minmatar ships are priced currently. there is just so much minmatar lp out there. i would love to see the actual amount from ccp but it would have to be something like 100s of trillions bazillions. if you look at the gallente store you will see many items sell at a much better lp/isk return than their ships. i think this is largely because their missions are more difficult and they tend to sit at tier 2-3 instead of tier 4. i am not sure how much caldari fw lp is out there. it is almost certainly much less than minmatar and switching the ships would probably help them a bit. but again that would just be a temporary fix. soon caldari would hit a higher tier and you would see people farming missions and ruining the lp value and therefore the value of the ships. i really think ccp has to take a multifaceted approach that includes turning off the fw lp faucet. but really it would be nice if ccp gave us some information about the lp all the sides are making from missions, plexing, and pvp. that would let us know what is having the largest effect on the lp market. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"eve online experience: waiting for something you're almost certain it will not be worth the wait, and yet you just keep checking for news every day out of a tiny hope of being wrong.i am not bittervet, i am experienced."
"that's your eve online experience. most of us log in and have fun building stuff and blowing stuff up just playing the game as it currently is, and how was designed. we do not sigh with despair every time we log into the game wishing it was something else other than the space pvp sandbox game that it is has been for over a decade, or come and spread that despair all over the forums. the minutes will be ready when they are ready. but regardless, they are not going to contain some unreported nugget like ccp is turning eve online into wow in space like you are hoping for."
"if just they contain some nice news about fw (hopefully the removal of the fw plague missions , or at least make lvl 4 not doable in covops frigates), it will suffice. btw. will reply on the other topic we are discussing, when i have more time available to come up with a proper detailed answer on changes that could benefit."
"i think it is just fine. the confusing term here seems to be ally :d when enlisting to faction warfare for gallente you are also in war with amarr (meaning caldari and amarr are in war against gallente and minmatar). i think it is fine and reasonable that for example gallente wants to throw some rocks in the machine of their enemies(amarr and caldari) by getting capsuleers to harass them even in non fw missions. amarr is still an enemy even if they are not the arch enemy. in the second world war people were not like \" we won't attack the ally japan, because germany is the main enemy\".what would be weird is if you got anti-minmatar missions as gallente, but you don't. another thing is that you can even bypass this by cancelling one mission per 4 hrs. if this is too much waiting for you, just live with the standings hit or get another career like exploration, where you hurt no one. this is a non-issue for me tbh."
"in terms of lore and rp, however, the *direct* enemies are gallente and caldari, and amarr and minmatar. there are also the secondary enemies, but most of the in-game lore is centred around the conflicts between the primary ones.yes, i am aware of bypassing missions, but that's not what i'm looking for at all - in fact, i love anti-faction missions and grab them wherever i can (ea is my personal favourite :) ). also, the suggestion of taking up another career is a complete non-sequitur, as there is an imbalance with lp tag requirements (particularly of the captain or equivalent rank tags) and the actual distribution of said tags.a proposal like this would go some way to rationalising things."
"to have the emotes reflecting standings is an idea i really like.interestingly when i first got into eve, i didn't have any idea that something like wis was planned. but having found out about it, i hope to see it eventually."
"had an idea of how wis gameplay could be implemented, while making sense to things such as the lore, possibly technical restrictions and not having combat.to make sense to eve, the stations have fixed the atmosphere in parts of the station, or there is a booster or treatment for capsuleers. another thing is the implant in dust514 that could theoretically open the possibility for combat in stations. but i imagine that you can't both have this implant as well as using a capsule, because of interference that would occur between them. since capsuleers then will be vulnerable, there has to be security measures, like drones at various places or automatic weapons within the areas, controlled by advanced ai, monitoring and detecting signs of possibly attacking other capsuleers, preventing (but not being too harmful) before there is time to inflict any harm. it is not a need to have these security measures visible, they could be behind opaque walls for example. to have this as a background would make for an interesting setting, as there is something intriguing about being left to the security systems in the station, even if it is just a background that doesn't affect anything. this is something that could explain if there are only few or sometimes no npc's in these places, but it would be interesting to have some npc's at least. if there is a technical limit of the number of people at once, which i understand can be a problem, it could be coupled with the station security issues. even with the security measures, due to the skills of many capsuleers, only so many could be allowed at a place at one time. i think capsuleers would be very reluctant towards this, but perhaps agreeing as recognizing the need to put safety first. in station there could therefore be many people docked, but instead of everyone being in one big place, there are smaller different areas in each station. and a station could have only a total certain number due to the security measures needed."
"can you explain how a massive disruption in supply is not going to cause a spike in prices?"
"it would depend where the moons start where they end and how long they take to deplete. if they start at 3xs current output and deplete to half current output there might not be a big impact.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"moon mining will die or change when the come out with the drill platform. thius is a non issue.but if you do that math it will take years for moon to even depleat for exsample, there is over 6 quatillion tons of copper on earth. using eve math, thats a crap ton of years mining at 100 units an hour. the moons of eve would not deplete in your lifetime anyway"
"it's hard to say how much lp people have from mission farming, and a lot of it might be on inactive accounts but you're probably right minmattar have enough to collapse any market. but i'm talking more about the demand side of it - and even though minnie ships are cheaper and there is lot of lp out there their ships are not getting used as much as gallente or even amarr. even worse for caldari, there might be stockpiles of lp although i doubt it because they haven't been t4 since test and they've regularly been t1 since then. having said all that i think gallente have good ships, the vni might be a touch op, but the rest of their ships are just what i would expect from a navy hull, my issue here is caldari and minmattar have too much garbage in their line up and it makes it harder for them to sell their lp. caldari navy cruisers badly need a rework that should be the biggest market but they hardly sell at all, the stabber fleet issue is also poor for a navy hull. as for the frigates, the hookbill isn't bad but it's not in the same class as the slicer or the comet"
"can we confirm that a ccp dev in fact attended the faction war session? make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"sometimes smaller more focused groups are useful. lots of people saying the same thing leads to that thing being noise, which drowns out signal (because you have to wade through it, even if it's correct, to find other things)importantly, this isn't a replacement for ccp posting things for everyone to see. just an intermediate step, to knock off a few more corners."
"yes there were a number there."
"fair points. i think there are allot of pros and cons for the different formats. but i think the most important thing is that the format thoroughly lays out the potential pros and cons of each idea in light of the intended goal for the mechanic. i would really enjoy participating in any group dealing with faction war sov mechanics. i have offered some ideas that i think such a group should at least consider here:"
"wow, i have been rl busy and hadn't been able to read the day 2 notes until today. sion's ideas are ludicrous and there is no better way to screw up the csm, and for that matter ccps ability to actually understand their playerbase, than to create cliques online as an \"outsourced\" layer of management for focus grouping.i wrote the following after reading day 1, i hadn't given the collusion block enough credit:"
"mr. harry saqi think the cat is already out of the bag on this. we already have an elite clique advising ccp behind closed doors with very little interaction between the general playerbase. it<U+FFFD>s called the csm. since they do not know everything about the game they just might hand pick some people to help them with different aspects of the game. right now we don't know who it is they discuss matters with, and why. it<U+FFFD>s all very convoluted. for example as i sit here now i have no idea what most of the members proposed to csm about faction war sov. sugar kyle wrote some ideas on her blog but they were fairly minor points. what if the conversation went beyond those minor points? who knows what she said? and she is the only one who even voiced any sort of opinion on that topic. as for the rest i really have no clue what they are telling ccp. i think many on the csm would admit they really don<U+FFFD><U+FFFD>t have much interest in fw sov mechanics and really don<U+FFFD>t know much about them. so maybe some of them talked to someone they know in fw and tried to get up to speed a bit. who did they talk to? what did they say? no one will ever know. now i agree the focus groups should not be closed to the players. but there should be some limits on who can post because so many threads in the regular eve o forums and reddit turn to garbage. that is why i suggested players could only pick one or 2 of these specialized topics to post in. the same trolls can<U+FFFD>t post in every topic. if you really like an aspect of eve and really thought through that aspect then you would post in that topic. but if you think you know everything about everything then you will have a hard choice to make. there is a problem with how csm works right now. the other thing this would address is this would allow other players to see what is being said. even if they can<U+FFFD>t post in more than one or 2 topics they should be able to see in the forums. everything would be much more transparent. right now i don<U+FFFD>t know if i need to check every individual csms blog, plus reddit, plus eve forums, plus townhall plus who knows what to find out about parts of the game that interest me. i am sorry but that is unrealistic to ask players. ccp should have a place where players can go to to see what they are asking for feedback on and read what the feedback is. i have no time to sit through csm members give their political soundbites during a town hall on topics that usually are of limited interest in this huge game. i would however read with interest the topics that effect the way i play the game. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"i think one of the big problems with boosters is the side effects. some aren't so bad but others are pretty harsh. even with top skills trained some of the side effects are pretty harsh. i think ccp could increase the amount that skills help deal with side effects. or they could allow you to retake the same booster and \"re-roll\" the side effects. you would then of course be paying more for the drug and this would be a type of addiction. it would increase demand for boosters. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"ahoy hoy alljust a quick thought for today. currently, the mission share reward system is very binary - either all (\"share mission rewards equally between all members of the fleet\"), or none (\"do not share mission rewards\"). i would say that this is generally fine and works well.however, i can't see it being a huge game changer to alter it so that the option to split is graduated to perhaps the following:- split all (as currently)- split isk/lp- split standings- do not split (as currently)i would say this is perhaps useful - as some examples - if you're grinding standings for a research alt, or perhaps would like to give a standings hand-up to a newbie in your corp without being completely altruistic with the rewards.i imagine that this is a fairly specialised proposal, but tbh i can't see how it would negatively affect things. just a small thing to make certain situations easier. it would also have the benefit of making standings boosting outfits rather easier to operate.thanks!"
"well... actually i even bought a ps3 to get my hands on dust514 because they put all the stuff in it i was expecting from wis... that nice strategy table game, the lobby... well... it actually is kind of walking outside of stations... so don't tell us, you can't do anything like this. you already did. you just refuse to include it into the same game client on the same platform."
"interesting reading of late. it would seem some have lost faith while others are still wearing their tinfoil hats.like them or hate them, a majority of the csm are there to help improve the game.the members of past csm who have thought it would influence their fame or game often weed themselves out as non productive.regardless of popular belief i am sure ccp is not out to screw over anyone, most ccp current employees have had or still do play they game we all love. some things we should admit 1. you can't make everyone happy. 2. change is hard to accept, good or bad.3. ccp is going to attempt to do what is best for eve. they have proven this time and again. 4. i will not rule out metagame, however csm members however elected have a good deal of hard work, long hours and an unbelievable amount of information to process. i believe they do this for the benefit of the game not to benefit their meta game. 5. in rl most people are not who they are in game. if they are they would be in a. prison b. psychiatric care c. both!we already have an area on the forums where dedicated players can voice concerns and propose new ideas. or sometimes old ideas in a new way. ccp and the csm do watch these threads and look for trends. i support the current system. changes are slow no matter what you do. look at the big picture not just your little corner."
"well bought myself a ship in scand was particularly curious about the wis in that gamei came to a conclusion...it was awesome to see (and i liked it very much)for that it is a missed chance for evei believe they did not hit the ball herebut made a hug mistake by not putting it in to this game...( i believe eve devs made a mistake )the bar in sc was really great and you coud talk to others thereif they are not stupid they change their minds on that matterperhaps they invest 30 dollars and take a peek in that game its legit i think"
"because those can only be bought with isk. if you're successful in the game, you can buy shinier stuff, but said shiny stuff can always be blown up. if you can get an actual advantage over other players just by being rich out of game and being able to remap whenever the hell you want to maximize your skill queue and train quicker, that's a problem."
"how about we just get rid of stats instead."
"i didn't even have to look to know it was hello kitty. we need a new example of ****-tier carebear gaming."
"i agree. definitely one of the little things that could be added to help some without being a detriment to others."
"the \"look at\" key (alt) does force your own ship's bracket to show up, though it's not any bigger than others and the color is only slitghtly more blue-ish... spamming the key to make it blink may help if you need to locate your own ship fast, i guess. or just use the tactical overlay as stated before.i'm not aware of other ways to do so.but i do agree that it's all workarounds for something that should be an option."
"computers have an off button. games have a log out button. with the ability to remove yourself almost immediately from undesired situations i find the op's argument null and void. irl most states that don't have a \"make my day\" law but still allow you to defend yourself in your house from an intruder, you had damn well better make sure you leave them an out and that they are for sure threatening your life or the lives of others in your house. if not you're in trouble if you shoot them. doesn't matter that they're in your house at 3 am and you've no clue who they are or what they want. with that kind of social thinking i find labeling in a mmorpg sandbox game quite laughable. although i shouldn't be surprised due to the lack of critical thinking and common sense we see in today's society. welcome to that club. please grow a pair."
"i think there is very little evidence of this. they might be looking at trends and not posting, who knows? but looking at trends is very different from engaging and asking questions about ideas. i am not really sure what valuable information you could get from looking at trends on these forums anyway. the up vote system is pretty broken and half of the posts are personal digs at people instead of addressing actual ideas for the game. there is very little engagement from the csm or ccp in the features and ideas, or assembly hall - or really any of the eve online forums. the exception is ccp will talk about what changes they already decided to make in features and ideas or dev blog and then ask for some tweaks from the players. it seems csm and ccp post more constructive posts outside of the eve-o forums on various blogs and other forums which means players need to go on a scavenger hunt to find out what they are thinking about their area of the game. actually ccp leeloo seems to have recognized this and tried to give us a resource to help search the world wide web and see what it is our csm actually think.i don't claim to know the intentions of csm members, i am sure they are varied. but yes i presume they hope to help eve. but that doesn't mean they have really thought things through. and if they haven't then their effect will just randomize the game. who do they think things through with? just random players, and we really don<U+FFFD>t know what they are saying. moreover due to nda and everyone dancing around minutes it might be months before we even know what they told ccp. as a player the disconnect could not be broader. this isn<U+FFFD>t tinfoil it<U+FFFD>s a fact. if you disagree, then prove it. tell me what any csm member other than sugar kyle proposed about faction war. go ahead search the web and try to see what they think about it. let me know. the fact is there is no transparency until after the meeting. we have no clue what they are going to push going into the meeting. even sugar kyle just mentioned some tweaks to faction war that ccp was considering. she was supposed to actually present something but i don<U+FFFD>t think eve players had access to what it was, so they could discuss it *before* it was presented. this is not to indict of sugar kyle or anyone on csm. but it is an indictment of the general way that csm works. and it is why sion is right. some things need to change. there has to be more transparency and use of the players' knowledge. as for ccp i do think they hope to help eve. but as a business owners they face dilemmas of long term or short term benefit. this is exemplified in the fact that players can pay for an extra account and use that alt which is not even in the fight as an off-grid boost, to give their main god mode. anyone thinking of long term for eve would instantly recognize this is a cancer for the game and have it removed asap. but if you are thinking of short term finances it may be helpful to keep these in. like many cancers when you allow it stay it will, sooner or later, lead to a rapid decline in health.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"see the vanguard patch notes."
"nice! /thread"
"who am i? somebody who believes in the history and potential of eve online why am i running? i love eve. it is the only game where a person can fully play their way what inspired me to run?years ago, from my first playing to 2012, i had experiences and encounters that to this day resonated with me. after 2012, i struggled to find the same experiences. recent changes in game mechanic changes have brought me back into forum discussions and working with the new player community. i would love to bring those same experiences to all the players from brand new rookies, to veterans.what about some more details of myself? 2008 start date 145m sp continuous play from time of creation done everything from industry and trading in high-sec to large sovereignty warfare. single main character, no alts used for play just wanted to get those basic questions out of the way, ones most would ask or be interested. if you have specific questions, just ask and i will reply as soon as i can. now onto a nitty gritty introductory speech so you know more about myself. there are a few points that will be my initial focus if i become part of the csm.my entire play style all originated from my first couple weeks in eve. namely with a corporation called stellar policying. i was brand new, and in among players flying abaddons. for a new player in a rookie ship, they are incredibly impressive and inspiring. they ran pve missions for fun as a corp including us rookies in their level iv missions. might not sound like much, but if i was along, i was going to be of maximum benefit.i quickly learned that my damage was inconsequential. so i found a new role. i fitted up griffins with remote tracking links and sensor boosters, target painters and such. i quickly came to realize that while my damage was low, i could drastically change my allies damage application. some time later, an in corp killer got in. having a taste for electronic support, i did a quick refit to a tackle griffin before i knew tackle was even a role. i caught the pilot, kept him webbed and jammed long enough for the veteran corpmates to catch him. i was popped, but did my duty.first objective:promote to new player support roles with veterans and vice versa. i was hooked on eve once i found out that a new player can fill a pivotal role in combat. i was not worried about dying. numerous times in eve since, i have flown ships that i knew would be destroyed, but i did my duty. another good example was during a war declaration, our corp got ambushed while moving. i happily flew in my blackbird, ecm on the war targets to ensure the higher value ship was able to be free.during this time, alliances grow, have political issues and fall apart. during the collapse, i got requested to form and lead a corporation which we called lorentzian expeditionaries. a small group of us whose main goal was a focus on the eve experience instead of just isk and killboards. it went quite well and even after the corporation dispanded, we remain in close contact and good friends.during this time, the sansha live events began. over time, i became a main fc for fleets, partly inspired by my time as a ceo. my focus was on organizing and working with the small corps, independent players and low sp pilots. the meta doesnt work well this way. without having doctrines, even more diffcult, yet by use of tactics and communication and having sub commanders who know their roles, we had some of the best success of many of the live events fleets.when these events were wound down, i had to go to nullsec, i missed and wanted the large fleets. alas, the doctrine and \"press f1\" experience left me lacking. most of the time i ran logistics, or command ship when needed. the most enjoyable fights were the losing fights. when the fleet was more concerned about the objective than a killboard was when it got good. while you may not know me, you know some of the events we triggered. back when romanian legion attacked nulli and starting the soco wars, i was a capital pilot in that failed attack!other memorable fight that i just loves was when with cascade imminent, we spotted an exhale capital which had entered our space through a wormhole. we counter invaded with a quick 'cane fleet. not only was the fleet on enemy turf, vs much higher isk ships, but we had no way back. epic fight, but even the journey home was a fantastic, good time.second objective: help refine and review combat mechanics to promote usage of wing and squad leadershipthose incursion fleets were extremely changing for me and my views on large warfare. alas i was disappointed getting into the thick of sov warfare. i feel numbers should make a significant difference, but not be the only deciding factor. a key objective of mine would be look at ways we can tweak combat efficiently to bring more importance to tactics and squad delegation in combat. this way combat would not just be numbers. by adding more uncertainty to the outcome of a fight would make for more good fights.since then, i have come back to pve and it isn't the same experience when i left. the incursion tactics i helped develop have become and elitist farm. oh, i was part of the first groups that cleared the incursion sites, many of the tactics i worked with the old guard to help develop. in addition, there isn't the incentive in missions to bring in new players for fun like back before. the pve experiences which got me out to null for years were not there anymore.third objective: revitalize the pve experiencei would love to see complexity and fleet based pvp so as a player progresses, it becomes more feeling like a pvp lifestyle. get people wanting more interpersonal play and competition. predictability and scripting has to go. (tbc, out of space)"
"predictability is counter to the objectives of eve which is risk, competition and a bit of glory. good pve would see non combat style competition between players by making better use of the escalation system. more complex would be a randomized or more logical style of spawning reminiscent of the way an enemy in an rts will counter the players. by having multiple players with a shared objective, the rush of competition will be instilled. unpredictability and loss will become more the norm which also then carries to a low and null security lifestyle.well, that is a very short form of my story. the experiences could fill this whole first page for sure, but if you vote for me, you must know who you are voting for.other objectives: revamp the war dec system to make it a tool for everybody from small new corps up through major alliances bring more functional variation to all hulls to increase variability and fleet complexity revitalize that long term sense of objective and accomplishment to differentiate eve from casual gameplay mmos i am not somebody who is in gaming for fame and gloryi am in eve for the experience of evei do not want to make eve easieri want to make it more intuitive, but complexi do not want nerfsi do not want buffsi want changeslastly:i do not want you to like mei want you to hate mei want the votes of those that disagree with me. for them to bring their opinions. if i do not understand every point of view, how can i make it better? i do not make use of alts for the simple purpose of increasing my challenge of the game. there are parts of eve i really do not like at all. but i do respect them. i want those to become part of the eve environment that people enjoy countering.for that, i need people to not like me and speak their minds!that is all for now, ask and let us debate.also, if you have an issue that is part of your gameplay experience, i pledge the following:i have no ties or major objectives holding myself back. as a csm and as a canditate;if your concern is something i am not solidly familiar with, i consider it my obligation to come and experience it first hand along side you if possible.i will give a like to your post when i put up a response so you can be notified."
"this is something i don't like. there was a topic about missiles rebalance/mods on official forums and i've heard there was a disscussion on reddit about it with devs involved. madness. eve has broad spectrum of activities, we can't assume csm members done all of them. i'm playing for 2,5 year and don't even touch fw because of standing loss. maybe it's time to vote for some kind of ppl good at one aspect of the game like low-sec, whs, industry etc. instead random dozen with 1/3 of them comes from goons just beacuse they have crushing voting supremacy comes from alliance numbers. most of it is nda, but last time fozzieman spoke too much on o7 show about minerals change and there was speculation on market."
"it could be done i suppose. i cannot think of any technical issues that would stand in the way."
"i just like to say.....\"never gonna give you up, never gonna let you down\".perhaps there was such a large amount of content with the pve (yeah, actually i mean fw) discussion that the minutes are pages and pages long?"
"according to sugar kyle's blog there was some corruption of files. but she is putting it together. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"more likely they're trying to figure a way so 3 minutes of casual talking while half the csm was outside of the boardroom looks as if ccp cares for pve players..."
"introduction vfthis is the time of the year where candidates start throwing their hats in the ring to become part of the next csm.i ran last year as a candidate for the solo play style. i consider myself a solo player because i do not pay any taxes to any player controlled entity with any of my alts for anything that i do, and i am not receiving any income from any other player except when selling the goods or services i am producing (on my own poses production lines) , looting the wrecks i can get my ships on, exploring the vastness of new eden, and the occasional short term loan when needed from one friend or another. i have found out during the last year that there are many shades of solo, and this term is often used with different meanings for each one of us. there are many other players that i also consider solo, some unknown living their gaming passion in anonymity, others more outspoken about their play style, like gevlon goblin or zosius. being solo does not prevent us from interacting with other players in different ways, affecting the meta according to our means, or trying to accomplish some things of significance. above all, i believe that solo players are not looking to rule over other players and take advantage of other players' game time to fill their own pockets.my work in my alliance is to help players that have already a few years of experience playing eve transition from being a cog in a larger machine to achieving their own independence, counting only on themselves, with all the risks that it entails.as a secretive resistance group, we are waging a war on taxes, and within the minmatar lore, we are outcasts and freedom fighters, fighting against the oppression of the amarr empire. we also fight all the players' alliances, large or small, that are chosing to tax their corp members or wage war on the free circulation of goods in high sec.but for csm xi, i am throwing my hat to represent all guerilla fighters. from lone wolves, as ccp seagul called us in her latest videocast about the return of expansions, to small groups and gangs that are fighting against larger forces, guerilla warfare is on the rise, with the game moving away from the domination of n+1 fleets.i am not the best pvp pilot, even if pvp represents 75% of my game time, i am not the best industrialist or market overlord, i am quite simply a random player lambda that chose to stop bending the knee in the past and walked away to establish my own play style, that is not willing to kiss any ring and that got moved to participate to this electoral debate after seeing the influence the established power players wield within the csm itself, and how this affects the game we all play to their own advantage.in csm xi i want to be the voice of the guerilleros, those that can't be bought with isks or positions of powers because they are fighting for an ideal that no imperialistic power will ever be able to embrace.my name is borat guereen, and i am candidate for csm xi."
"here is my campaign's platform.one term limit for csm membersthe csm is a group of elected lobbyists representing a faction or a play style. i support only one term for each csm member, so that every term newer engaged members of the active community can help shape the discussions with ccp on the game we all share. my position has not changed much from last year, except for promoting having one vote per active player, rather than one vote per active account.develop exposure to lore in-game while continuing the efforts to support the new players experience better.continue developing the new player resources in an integrated way within the game, in line with the work that has been done in the past years, and develop the tools for new players to easily be exposed within the game itself to the latest scope videos and lore happenings that shape the ongoing non-static storylines.encourage new ideas that would facilitate a nomadic life style. with the introduction of citadels in the game, i<U+FFFD>d like to promote having all current pos become orca-style ships once they run out of fuel or are unanchored. all the pos<U+FFFD>s online deployable would be automatically stored in their cargo bay. such <U+FFFD>towering<U+FFFD> ship would have the capacity to travel in new eden like an orca does. the fuel bay of this ship/pos could only be filled inside a station or a citadel, and they could head back to be anchored near a moon and be onlined again. as such, they would become a truly nomadic asset with a built-in limited deployment time before they have to travel back again for refueling. it would allow existing poses to smoothly transition to a role that is different from citadels, without becoming extinct, provided the problematic shield can be replaced by the new tethering mechanic.support guerilla friendly features.guerilla is about wearing down enemies organized in larger numbers, and that have access to overwhelmingly greater forces. in the same way that sov-holders value control over their region, guerilla tactics must provide a value for the efforts deployed to weaken stronger forces, without becoming overpowered when used by the larger groups themselves. labeling guerilla tactics as <U+FFFD>trolling<U+FFFD> is part of their propaganda metagame geared at protecting their influence on the game. defend and promote new mechanics that could be effective guerilla tools, like siphons.today, siphons are mostly useless because the apis are ratting them out within hours of their deployment. these are one-use only assets that are fairly costly, and end up totally inefficient to use by small isk-strapped entities that are unlikely to have any moons themselves, while they are a more useful tool for larger well-funded groups (the opposite of its original design goal). we need to hold ccp to their own statements, and stop having api give out the location of new siphon.the entosis ban on interceptors is yet another example where the null sec blocks actively work to limit the guerilla capabilities of smaller groups behind their lines. this issue was more about the nullification capabilities of interceptors. instead of this ban, i would have defended, for example, making hic bubbles negate nullification around gates.a last example is the upcoming regeneration of entosis nodes. the existing powers want entosis to strictly be a sov taking feature, and are purposefully negating its potential use as a guerilla tool. i do acknowledge that the concept of regeneration of nodes is needed, but the current rate of regeneration that has been communicated and is to be deployed soon is way too rapid, making any use of entosis as a guerilla tactic useless. i would have lobbied to have this rate apply only to capital systems, and significantly increase the regeneration time according to the distance of the system to the capital system. by linking the regeneration time to distance from capital system, large groups controlling large portion of space would be more affected than smaller groups living in a few systems.add some amount of fog-of-war to existing out of game api data, and limit new api sources.i would actively lobby to limit new api data that would replace in-game activity. api should not be providing too much out of game information and allow large entities to be managed by relatively small groups of players with the largest out of game technical abilities. i<U+FFFD>d also like to introduce some kind of in-game data privacy option. i support consensual watch lists or not seeing the destroyed modules in a kill mail unless the pilot opted in for this information to be publicly available. put bridging ships at riskthe capacity to bring in reinforcement by bridging ship to a cyno is a powerful tool against guerilla actions. larger groups have the advantage of numbers to field stand-by response fleets. to make instantaneously reinforcement become a more difficult tactical choice for anyone using this powerful projection tool, i would lobby to have the bridging ship jump to the location with the bridged fleet once the bridge closes, without the possibility to prevent that jump. allow capital ships to cyno to any system<U+FFFD>s sun in range.the ability for all capitals to jump to a cyno is highly dependent of good cyno beacon infrastructures or cyno alts. for the more casual players that can<U+FFFD>t afford multiple accounts, or the smaller groups, the use of capitals is limited by this lack of infrastructure. i would promote allowing capitals to jump to sun in systems in range (unless they are cyno-jammed), and prevent deploying any citadel within less than 1 au from a system<U+FFFD>s sun."
"require that all players link all their alts publicly, with a slight change in the eula, and remove the character bazaar.there are some activities in eve that do not yet fit into the risk versus reward model that is widely accepted as being core to eve game design. cloaky campers, infiltrated spies or destabilizing agents using anonymous alts are activities with high potential rewards and little risks. they favor power players with the means to maintain multiple accounts.anonymous alts may have been a good thing for the past decade, but it may be time to examine how this affect the more recent players. any rising group can be easily infiltrated, and is never going to evolve anymore beyond being a <U+FFFD>farming<U+FFFD> ground for the bigger groups, or will implode from being destabilized from inside to the profit of the already established groups that can keep their hand in all the pies all the same time with anonymous alts. the game should allow new entities to grow with players whose in-game experience and loyalties can be established with their pilot<U+FFFD>s histories and the influence that each player can wield is made visible by linking together all their alts publicly, after giving current players a chance to choose the alts they will chose to keep to represent their in-game experience going forward. i do support making skill points another commodity through the recently announced transneural packages, and i would also lobby once this feature is implemented to remove the character bazaar entirely, so that all pilots history and name remain tied to the player that created them in the first place.in its first decade, eve online was a wild west where dreams of empires were achievable. the mechanic of the game so far has encouraged players to join larger groups to find security in numbers and organization. still, the domination of n+1 fleet has been correctly identified as a problem for the game, and the stagnation of null sec has been called out as an issue. this second decade must be the age of revolutions, and the game must offer mechanics that can threaten established alliances, forcing the largest groups into actively defending their territories, or become splintered. it should also prevent hidden influences by established power players protecting their personal interests. there are no revolution without the ability to wage effective guerilla warfare, and the csm needs voices that can lobby to make sure features that are designed to be guerilla friendly do not end up being nerfed to uselessness to protect established interests."
"csm xi voting endorsementsas the campaigns for csmxi are developping, and more public data is available, i will copy here the names and campaign pages of the other candidtaes that i will recommend voting for for csmxi. a full ballot should have 14 candidates names on it to take full advantage of the voting system. if you like my platform, put me first on your ballot, and order these other candidates in the order that fits you best.go check their campaign thread and give them a serious consideration.1/27 - uriel paradisi anteovnueccian excellent cap stable interview, and i believe that the csm xi needs to have a lore and in-game event representative. 1/30 - joffy aulx-gaoa strong candidate having the support of one of the best known low sec pirates group, led by rixx javix. as a player who is confined to a bed or a wheelchair he can also bring some good insights to ccp for their user interface. 2/16 - jintaana great interview and a clear focus toward the interest of the provi bloc and the nrds play style.2/16 - dotoofooan independent candidate, industrialist, solo players with a focus on low class wh lifestyle.2/16 - vic jeffersona voice from ns that does not necessarily represent the interest of the larger groups, and advocates clearly for a balanced csm with only three ns representatives (which sounds right). 2/16 - diana olymposexperience in null sec with small groups as an ex-pfr as well as current member of mercenary coalition will give a good voice to small to medium sized ns and mercs groups.2/16 - nikolai agnona great interview from a low sec faction warfare focused candidate, with some side of api and pve interests.2/18 - toxic yakenrepresenting the dark side of high sec, with a focus on fixing wardecs and bounty hunting2/22 - utari onzoa logi fc specialist and capital triage player that is both rp oriented and flying in null sec2/22 - rf gneaus crassushs player that is part of big haul in new eden and non-pvper. he considers (rightly so) than hs ganking is more like pve than pvp2/22 - lorelei ierendii have three hs picks for this year as i believe hs needs attention quickly after citadel. i had loreli on my ballot last year, and another euro-player representative of hs will round up my votes in that area.2/22 - capri sun kraftfoodshe is the closest of a ns bloc candidate i am willing to endorse. i hesitated between gorski car and him, but i'll go for a smaller group (tishu) over an established powerhouse (pl) anytime. of course i disagree with his stance about removing aegis sov.2/27 - xavier azabuthe choice was tough for this last entry into this endorsement post. steve ronuken will not need any independent votes as all the blocs are already going to make him their independent vote. commander aze was on my short list but he supports sion's suggestion of csm driven focus groups which would be a terrible nepotistic thing for the game. a few others were close but i settled for xavier, as a wh and pve centric candidate, that can also speak japanese.check these other csm xi analysis resources- vote match- mike azariah post- cap stable analysis shows 1, 2, 3, 4- eveoganda endorsement- jakobs eve checklist 1, 2, 3- event csm xi interviews- declaration of war roundtables 1, 2- xex endorsements- i'd be remiss if i did not link gevlon csm xi post. he supported me last year. i disagree with his approach this year, instead i believe we should not put any null sec bloc player in our ballot if we deem ourselves to be independent. but he still holds an interesting viewpoint on the csm."
"greetings,my name is joffy aulx-gao and i am excited to announce my candidacy for csm xi.i have been playing eve full-time since 2012 and proudly serve as the diplomat for stay frosty and the a band apart alliance. i have participated and helped organize many of stay frosty<U+FFFD>s ffa in-game events, and fought in the neo tournament as well as the most recent alliance tournamant. i was one of the first players to join stay frosty and have been instrumental in working alongside rixx javix to make it one of the greatest pirate corporations in new eden. but i am most proud of the friendships and connections that i have made over the years and i believe strongly that eve is one of the greatest community of players in the world. i probably come to eve from a rather different perspective than most players. i have a form of muscular dystrophy known as pompe disease. this means that i am primarily confined to a bed or a wheelchair, mostly due to problems with my back. and i can only move my hands, fingers and face. playing eve was extremely challenging at first, but i<U+FFFD>ve learned to adjust the ui for less mouse movements and work around my inability to talk on comms. i don<U+FFFD>t believe in letting my own challenges stand in my way and i suppose this fighting spirit is the real reason i want to represent you on the csm this year.my platform is built around helping players from all walks of life enjoy eve. and to see it continue to expand to include more players from all backgrounds. certainly my own situation has inspired me to help those in similar situations understand that they to can enjoy our wonderful game. but i also want to focus on low sec space as it<U+FFFD>s my home, because i believe this area within the game still needs a lot of attention.i want you to know that i will be your voice and that i am ready to earn your vote. i<U+FFFD>ve never taken anything for granted, and serving the players is something that i will do with pride and distinction if chosen to do so. there are issues that continue to persist in eve and these need to be addressed, our voices need to be heard and i will strive to be the conduit thru which they can be.as diplomat and director in the a band apart alliance i<U+FFFD>ve had the distinct pleasure of working with our corporations in all areas of eve, from piracy, to industry, wormholes, and most recently, with null sec sov. i strongly believe that this perspective has given me a unique ability to understand how they all work together to create a better environment for all of us. and i<U+FFFD>d like to see those connections expanded in the near future. we stand on the edge of drastic change, with new and exciting additions to the game being added quickly. it is more important now than ever to have knowledgeable and experienced players representing you on the csm.player issues are ever-changing, but i have spoken to many players and these are some of the ones i believe elicit the strongest opinions (in no particular order): that warfare links needs to be changed so it<U+FFFD>s not just a required tool for regular pvp but a tool that<U+FFFD>s risky and more activity focused, not just an alt in deep space. suitonia has some nice ideas on this matter written on his blog here"
"my interviews:csmwatch:"
"ive had the pleasure to fly with joffy in big fleets and little roams and hes a solid as choice for a candidate, shortlist atleast :)"
"i've had the pleasure of knowing and flying with joffy for a while now.he's incredibly passionate about the game, very helpful and a deadly pilot. he's always thinking outside the box with fits and tactics and lends a helping hand to all players in the allianceif anyone was to represent lowsec, it would be the man that calls it his hunting groundi endorse joffy for csmxidehino 'smin yatha dehe kaumara<U+1E3F> yauvana<U+1E3F> jaratatha dehantara-praptir dhiras tatra na muhyati"
"i can't say enough about this courageous and amazing young man. he consumes eve with a determination that is breathtaking and amazing to watch. and he doesn't let anything stand in his way. it has been my honor to fly with him and trust him over these past two years. i cannot recommend joffy enough and he will be getting my full support and my vote."
"i too will be adding joffy to my list, great guy in the short time i've know him. will be good to get a low-sec/pirate pilot on the csm."
"joffy is one of the nicest, most sincere, and dedicated players you'll ever meet. he's knowledgeable about many play styles, inquisitive, thoughtful, and smart. he'll be getting one of my top tier votes not just because he's a friend, but because i think he would be an excellent csm member. just as his rl challenges do not prevent him from achieving remarkable success in-game, they will not prevent him from achieving remarkable success as a csm either.best wishes for a successful election, joffy! <3"
"joffy has my vote - great person, skilled pilot"
"a pretty solid supporter here from my experiences.i plan on running as well, but the writeup you made is quite professional considering the forum formatting limitations. i suspect my support will go your way as well."
"you have my support!"
"i've known joffy for the past two years. he's always impressed me with this knowledge of the game and level-headedness. personality-wise, he has the rare combination of being highly skilled but not letting it go to his head. he's primarily a low sec pirate but has spent time in wormhole space and has an appreciation for the environment and culture there. he can be ruthless and unforgiving in-game while still being a pleasant person to talk to or debate with when the fight is over. in talking with him over the past few years i've found that he has a lot of good solid opinions but is also open to revising them based on a valid argument or new information.i was impressed with joffy even before i found out about his condition, and can personally attest to the fighting spirit he mentioned in his op. for all these reasons i strongly recommend you consider voting for joffy."
"thank you very much for everybodys support, this is just the first step in a very long process. i'll need you to spread the words to your friends so i can get as much feedback as possible especially regarding accessibility for disabled players.fly safe :)"
"good luck - lowsec needs more voices on the council."
"go joffy go!you have my support, you are one amazing dude who will bring a unique viewpoint to any csm. i love your fighting spirit, your toughness and your sense of fun.once i started flying your tristan fit, i never looked back! capsuleers, we need this guy's voice! new eden will get better and better.go joffy go!"
"((reserve post, sorry for the bump))"
"my name is the judge and i am proud (and excited) to announce my candidacy for csm xi. while i have rolled many characters and been known by many names since late 2003, i have been playing eve full time since 2008. i have had the privilege to participate in many wars, events and alliances but what i am most proud of is the friendships and connections i have made within the greater eve community. i strongly believe what makes eve unique in a ever changing world is the community that shapes and guides the universe we all take part in every time we open up the launcher and log in. eve is a massive and immerse game fuelled by the experiences of its players. it is you, the player, that i would like to represent.i am currently honored to hold the title of senior diplomat and fleet commander for the alliance circle-of-two. i am also a proud member of the circle-of-two alliance tournament team. in my spare time i enjoy spending a few days a week making the rounds in the eve podcast community, as both a guest and listener. while i am currently a member of the imperium, i have lived for large amounts of time in both high and low security space. i like to think i have my ear to the ground on the issues facing pilots from all over new eden. i come to you not only as a candidate for nullsec, but as a person who wants nothing more than to see eve continue to succeed, evolve and grow.my platform is quite simple. i want to earn your vote and be the person you can voice your concerns, issues, hopes and ideas to. i want to make sure that every good idea and every concern that the eve community has makes it to ccp and the rest of the csm. i feel like the issue that continues to persist over the years is the communication barrier between players and ccp, which while i feel that ccp and the current csm have taken giant steps forward to resolving this once and for all, i feel like i have something to offer. whether you are the ceo of your one person corporation or the head of a 40,000 pilot coalition i believe that you should have a voice, and that no one voice should be louder than anyone else's. i believe that everyone has something to say, and that they should be heard. i want to be the person you can contact and always get a reply. the eve community deserves someone to filter the good from the bad and to present all the relevant information to ccp in a constructive way. over the years the i have seen the outcries caused by misinformation or misunderstanding lead to many positive changes to be scaled back or downright scrapped. i feel like this is something that is still an issue, and something that with my skills and experience, i can help resolve.the list of the current (and ever changing) issues that players i have talked to think could be changed or tweaked is ludicrously long, but some of the player perceived issues i have the strongest opinions on are:<U+FFFD> the power of nullified interceptors - the main issue here being that short of using smartbombs, interceptors in the current meta can be completely safe and uncatchable. not only is this frustrating when being on the receiving side of this, but it also goes against the whole idea of \"never being safe in new eden\". one idea i have heard is to make interceptors nullified to anchorable and light interdictor bubbles, but not immune to the bubble of a heavy interdictor.<U+FFFD> the balance of t3 cruisers in the current meta - it is well known that even after the latest rebalanced to t3 cruisers, these ships are still overly powerful for their hull size and cost. in my opinion this is not due to the modular design but more with the way t3 cruisers can be used in large fleet to devastating effect to almost anything opposing them. while i have no solid idea on how this could be remedied, i am open to suggestions!<U+FFFD> new player retention; particularly the well known \"learning cliff\" - while part of the draw of eve is how unforgiving the game can be, it also means that there is a very high barrier to entry which i feel could be lowered even further, potentially with the return to the 900,000 sp starting point for new pilots.<U+FFFD> the current state of war declaration mechanics - it is my opinion that the mechanics of war declaration need to be completely redesigned. not only is this an issue for highsec pilots trying to make their start in eve, but it is also an issue for lowsec and nullsec corporations and alliances. the current war mechanics allow entities to declare war on any corporation or alliance for an insignificant amount of isk and almost no risk to themselves. i feel like in its current state the war mechanics have too low of a cost for the aggressor.<U+FFFD> lack of new missions and mission variations - anyone who has ever run level 4 missions will understand me when i say there is only so many times you can save \"the damsel\" before you wonder how she seems repeatedly end up in the same situation after being saved. with a very limited rotation for agent missions, eve for many players becomes incredibly repetitive and tedious. i would like to see either new missions added to each agent levels rotation, or a annual rotation of completely new missions.how can you contact me?twitter: @_thejudgeingame: mail or convo the judgeingame channel: thejudge4csmin closing, i urge you to vote when the time comes. there are many dedicated and worthy candidates hoping to make it onto csm xi. i hope you find me worthy to be one of the 14 chosen to represent our amazing and unique community. thank you."
"~reserved~"
"you have my support!"
"best of luck!just a warning, posting so very early prior to the election will require you to maintain your op as a \"living document\".i'm interested, if nothing else, to see how your op changes over the coming months.question for you: interceptors just had the ability to fit the entosis link removed. do you think this was a good change? should it have extended to all ships with the interdiction nullification ability? should it be extended further to all ships that can fit a cloak?"
"thanks for the reply jayne.while a early post may seem daunting to some, to me it is not only my candidacy but a way to show some dedication. it would have been very easy to post the month of elections and avoid critique, but i feel like that side steps the real purpose of a candidacy thread.that being said, the common misconception that once you say something in the public realm that opinion is set in stone is something i will happily contend with. i have no doubt my op will evolve over time, and honestly, i hope it does. to your question - yes, i feel the removal of the interceptors ability for fit an entosis link was a step in the right direction. the issue most people had with entosis-ceptors was the ability for the attacker to move throughout a region without any real risk to their ship, while also having the benefit of being one of the fastest warping ships in game. this leads into the problem of people using the interceptors to \"troll\" sov holders without any real commitment or risk.what you have outlined would be my perfect world scenario. what i hear a lot is the idea of the entosis link being limited to battlecruiser or battleship hulls and above, which while on the surface seems like a great idea, i feel like it would stifle a whole lot of positive content for smaller groups both attacking and defending. i think if the safety net of interdiction nullification and cloaking (in a perfect world, the ability to fit a cloak at all) was removed from entosis warfare everyone would be better off. i think we would see a whole lot more of small and medium gang entosis warfare and not so much of the lone troll pilot looking to annoy people with no intent to come back for the second timer.hopefully that answers your question :)"
"...because it is awfully annoying waiting for pilots to manually jump at a gate, after warping there. i have a feeling the game mechanics might not allow it, but i think it would be cool to have!"
"relevant"
"seeing how it keeps being popped up, and i am looking to be more directly involved with csm, this seems like a good point to start.the concept of cyberbullying in eve? you are correct. it is a problem in eve and the eula is such that anything that can be deemed bullying is a support ticket petitionable event.it is important that we differentiate between what is bullying, and what is part of eve gameplay. lets start with your example of ganking and new player war declarations.these themselves are not an example of cyberbullying. reason is that is is only a part of the gameplay environment. the reason it is so psychologically affecting of players is that people come in with an incorrect mindset. the image presented for eve online is much different than what actually exists. those that come in without prior contact with players are imagining this free flying space game of mining and industry with dreams of seeing these big fights.the ganking, and survival of the weak is a part of the game. they just aren't in that mental state. would be like being dropped into a war zone expecting an all inclusive resort. that isn't bullying, just false representation.personal attacks, targeted and prolonged harassment, bringing things out of game, that is and has been repeatedly over the years brought up and enforced by ccp.so the op actually is a valid concern. it is a psychological effect on a player. new game high, psyched up and if they are an immersive player, it is a psychological shock even though it is a game. people take gaming seriously. so when suddenly this initial image of eve is shattered, they wonder wtf? even the elites of eve get passionate about it. if you didn't, you wouldn't even care about the forums except for proposed changes.the issue is mental preparation for what eve actually is. if they know they can get ganked, and it is probable. then they will not have that shock."
"people should learn to killfile. i'll never be the victim of online bullying because my first response to someone trying would be right click > block."
"stress and depression is never logical. which is why information is important."
"indeed. much of the hand-wringing on these forums come from people who clearly have no clue, or at least are unable to accept, what kind of game this is. the new pilot faq makes it crystal clear that eve is a full-time, pvp sandbox game where there is no safe place. yet, there is a whole cohort of players that don't seem to know this. is this a language issue? or do many players just not understand what a pvp sandbox is? because clearly, many players need to have their expectations adjusted to what type of gameplay to expect in eve online.perhaps ccp could make this clearer in their advertising and during the npe. but all-in-all, i do not think i can blame ccp for \"false representation\" though. if players do not take the time to do the most basic research on the game, and read the new pilot faq, then they have no-one to blame but themselves when a months worth of their work explodes in a glorious fireball. eve is not an unknown quantity or new game on the block. there are 12 years worth of reviews and commentary on the game out there on the internet. the best we can do as veteran players is explode new players early and often. teach them that ships are meant to be lost, and help them with advice and isk to get better at the game. teach them that it is not \"cyberbullying\" to take someone's assets or shoot them in this game which is pretty much requires people to shoot each other and take each other's stuff to function as a universe with a player-driven economy. instill the fading htfu culture in them to the point that they too laugh at attempts (like this thread) to meta-game their in-game opponents away by claiming \"cyberbullying\"."
"i used to think as you do. i actually took the time to look, and then write a letter to several devs directly including some of my favorite csm candidates. i received replies from 1 dev on behalf of the rest and from two csm members. my concerns were noted, evidence of my past posting was used. the simple explanation is that we are many, devs are few, they cannot possible answer and discuss every item on every thread.they do look at trends, and give weight to popular ideas. eve is a vast game, even at their largest ccp does not have the manpower to address every aspect of eve in one go. i for one want our devs and csm working not reading and replying to every sub topic. sometimes it is better to look at the forest and not worry about a few bad trees until they become a fire hazard."
"i have to say that asking all the thousands of players to try to take up a private coorespondance with each csm member is about the worst idea out there. there is no transparancy for one. are the csm going to privately tell every person \"yes i agree\" even when they recieve contradictory advise? who knows? second it is an incredibly ineffecient way to communicate with thousands of players to ask them each to individually write you and then you can individually respond. and what sort of in depth discussion could writing a letter have? i don't expect csm to answer every thread on every type of forum. that is the point. there should be *one* thread for each topic they intend to address and the csm who is addressing that topic only need to check one place. the ideas are out in the open (not just through private letters) and the community can actually take part in the process. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"a few issues. 1) not all csm read the forums, nor do they want to. have you seen the volume of material produced here each day?2) we have threads started by players about various topics, often overlapping or resurrected from the dead pile. one thread per topic is a nice idea but topics wander. hell this one is about a summit that has ended and yet here we are talking about how representation needs to be done.3) people already listen to others whom they trust. how do you see the forums different from listening in private. i know that i am odd in that i do not often look at who said what until after i have read the text. (teacher training, helps keep bias out of the response)4) ideas in the open? i agree. always have. (with the exception of nda material) hammering out details or fine tuning sometimes needs a more focused subgroup as the signal to noise ratio in a large group is low. now if you want to take issue with who or how said subgroup is chosen, i will be right there with you. 5) oh, and thousands do not write us. most play the game happily ignorant of the csm's existence. others are sure we are naught but a publicity campaign or a deflection shield for player criticism. hell i would welcome more mail from players.me? i am hoping that the day 4 minutes come out soon. that being the main reason i still haunt this thread.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"mike thanks for the concerns. ill just address each numbered point:1)again what you say is the point that needs to be addressed. the idea is not that the csm should read all the forums. rather i say if a csm member is going to present something to ccp then that csm member could post some of their ideas in a single thread. players could pitch in their ideas. (again if you want to reduce the amount of noise ask that players only post in one or 2 such csm topics)the current situation effectively means no one has any clue what the csm are doing with ccp. like i said, csm had a session with ccp about faction war. did anyone know what the csm was going to tell ccp before other than the csm members themselves and perhaps thier relatively small cliques of friends? no because there is no format where players can easily learn what csm are thinking on the topics they are interested in. look on reddit look at blogs listen to podcasts and hope some of these mention something you're interested in. the thing is eve is so big that most likely most of what is posted/said there will not be of interest to most players. by having a seperate thread for a topic players can learn what the csm thinks about the topics that are important to them. why should i have to register for reddit and a thousand different blogs in order to talk about ccp's csm? 2) topics can wander no doubt sometimes it is because the effects of what is talked about go beyond what people think. other times its because people are off topic. we are talking about how representation needs to be done in this thread because it seems it was a topic of the summit. but yes this thread would be overbroad. the thread topics should be of more limited scope but some leeway should be offered. there is no magic formula but its also not an impossible task. honestly, unless csm can actually get player input csm is at best a waste and at worst misleading ccp about what players want. 3) transparency transparency transparency. now csm are seen as just a bunch of special interests that do not even allow players to know what they are advocating until it is done. and until csm opens up beyond private emails with thier friends this view will be justified. i have no idea who you speak to nor do i care. i am however interested in the *ideas* you want to present to ccp. why wouldn't you (or other csm) want players to know what ideas you intend to propose, so they can give input?right now the messages and formats are so diverse across the internet they are effectively hidden. 4) i am glad you are all for openness. i would suggest that csm members simply start a seperate thread about what they might talk about for the next summit. so for example, if you were planning on presenting something in the fw topic then you would put in to that thread what you wanted to say. if you had nothing you were planning to say in the fw thread then you wouldn't *need* to follow it the thread at all. no one from csm would need to post at all. but then don't be surprised when players think little of csm. players who are interested in that topic can post. if the thread gets too unwieldly you have to at least count it as some sort of plus in that players are actually taking interest in the csm. but yes there might be negatives to the threads getting too large. and in those cases moderation or splitting of topics may need to happen. not consider an idea due to some personal grudge against the poster? that fits the view many players have that csm are just special interest groups for their friends. 5) i would like to know what your views are on topics. private emails you have with others is not going to help. let's say day 4 comes out and people want to address some of the topics in an open way. wouldn't it be nice if there was a seperate thread for each topic? i mean posting in this thread will just a be a huge mass of different topics. that is all i am suggesting. i would just like to see separate threads that address the topics csm intends to propose to ccp. is that asking too much?make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"nope, and a few folks help by sending links to threads they have started to csm asking for comments. that removes the 'private clique' aspect and helps save the csm from having to wade into the forum muck looking for gemsmmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"joffy is a very engaged player that seems to have a level head when it comes to gameplay and mechanics. he's a very nice guy that is always willing to discuss solutions to a problem, instead of simply complaining.he's also very active in the eve community. always helpful in the broadcast4reps channels and chatty on twitter, he's proven himself to be a solid member that gives eve a good rep. the only complaint i have is that he's not in my corp. but, like i always say - if you don't fly brave, at least stay frosty.7ogood luck, bud.you never fly alone - broadcast 4 reps | twitter: @thecoffeerocks | steam: coffeerocks"
"<U+FFFC>rock ooon !!! go joffy !! <U+FFFC> \(@<U+FFE3><U+FFE3>@)/ one of them pilots that is always a blast just to sit back and chat it up with  was never interested in posting on the the forums until my main man the joffinator posted this ;p"
"great to see you running for csm as well joffy!you will certainly be getting my vote!i have known joffy for well over a year and have spend time alongside and against him in space. anyone facing joffy's guns is pretty sure to perish as his skills and knowledge in the game rival those of the best players in eve online. his deep understanding of the game itself make him supremely skilled and a good judgement on whats right and wrong with current and future game-mechanics.additionally and more importantly joffy is a credit to his alliance aba as chief diplomat; his patience and excellent communications have contributed to calming dire, difficult situations. i have personally witnessed his charm on this front.with these two great attributes combined i hope to serve alongside you at the next csm sir!all the best and count on me for support!#eve_nt website; www.eve-nt.uk blog;"
"***introduction***i am pleased to say that i am going to be running for csm xi in the next upcoming election. last year i wrote a little about myself, but i<U+FFFD>d like to go ahead and introduce myself to those who may not know me.my name is erika mizune and i have been playing eve actively since 2011 (not including my first account i failed at in 2010). i found out about eve through eve radio. i joined in the irc (internet relay chat) channel and from there i started talking with people in the channel and i wanted to learn more; so one of the staff members had sent me a invite for a buddy trial. it did take me a little while before things started clicking, but eventually i did learn to love the game and i loved the idea of it; it was unlike any other game that i have played. i was hooked to say the least.from there, the rest is history as i started to make friends and become immersed within the community.being an active member of the community is something that i have been proud of. i am currently serving with eve radio under my main alias, dj yumene. i have from there always been someone who has loved to step up and and help others that ask and need it. i want to give back to the community...so that brings me here, to this post announcing my candidacy for csm xi. i am asking for your support in placing your vote for me in the elections. i have the passion and the drive to want to give back and help, with the community at the heart.in-game i am a focused industrial player living in 0.0 sovereignty space. i am a miner, manufacturer, hauler, and pretty much anything else in between. on the side i also have a character that i have specialized in pvp skills and i have had a share of pirate, fw, and sov pvp experience. i always enjoyed also trying other things outside my normal play style as well.***industrial focus***the industrial side of the game, still, seems to be most un-appreciated. there have been changes introduced, however there is still a lot more that could be done i feel to make things feel better. industrial tasks and jobs are known to be the most tedious of the other areas (and possibly market trading/market pvp), and for me, i<U+FFFD>d like to see the industrial side get some more love.***industrial <U+FFFD>little things<U+FFFD>***there<U+FFFD>s always ideas for little things here, and i started thinking of little things a good while back when ccp had opened up a topic to get ideas for <U+FFFD>corp little things<U+FFFD> - and i did submit my own ideas for the thread, but also thinking on the industrial side:- pos moon mining: when you are at your pos in order to collect your materials from a moon harvester you have to first offline the silo to take your items out, but when you go to turn it back on with the right click option, where the <U+FFFD>offline<U+FFFD> option was, there is a link to <U+FFFD>unanchor structure<U+FFFD> with the <U+FFFD>online<U+FFFD> option bumped to the center of the menu. this can cause much frustration if you accidentally click that unanchor option. change position of unanchor option and online option to avoid misclicks.- pi w/ less clicking: self explanatory i think, reducing the clicking would be nice when it comes to setting up your planets, especially setting up links between the structures you place down and setting schematics for all your facilities. possible idea to be able to save factory <U+FFFD>plans<U+FFFD> (like ship fitting) where you can choose to use a saved <U+FFFD>plan<U+FFFD> to lay down instead of having to re-build everything. you would still have to create routes/links and set your schematics however - this would simply be laying down the groundwork of the buildings. (more ideas from a fellow player)- new options for mining: i touched this last year, but it is still relevant; comet mining! why do we not have this?! ok, maybe this isn<U+FFFD>t a <U+FFFD>little thing<U+FFFD> ... but i just didn<U+FFFD>t want to leave this out.- industrial notifications - nearly everything in eve has notifications from pvp kill mails, to pos structure fuel and reinforcement notifications; however most industrial activities do not. when a indy job finishes, there is no notice, if your pi storage is getting full, there is no notice, pi cycle timer running low, there is no notice; if moon mining silos are getting full, there's no notices. indy notification love please?- industrial teams: it<U+FFFD>s been awhile since we heard anything about the teams and if/when they are coming back. it was a good concept and think it should be revisited.- blueprint invention: bringing back the invention section on blueprint information without having to go to the copy tab and then click invention. would make it very much easier and user friendly.- courier contracts: ability to see if there is a cargo can inside of a contract. not able to see what's inside the cans, just to show if there is one or not.***non-industrial 'little things'***note pad: very useful to have and i love it, but a couple things i'd like to see - (a) being able to view notes side by side (like you can with other windows to compare with), and (b) a simple un-do/re-do feature, even if it only does the last couple of edits, would be useful. been a number of times i wish this was an option when i accidentally delete something and have to rewrite it. i don't know if this would be a 'little thing' though ... though it seems like it should be.couriers: can we get comma's on the m3 values? when you initially create the contract there are commas, but when you finish creating it, the commas are gone and sometimes hard to read [figure 1]. comma's plox!eve-mail: filters please? so annoying trying to find that one mail and having to tab between several pages of messages; almost everything else in eve has filters, mails is one that should have"
"old 'sovereignty' kill information: on the old sov info window you could also see the activity in the top corner with how many ship losses and pods were killed in the last 24hrs, but with the new sov tab, this isn't view-able anymore and high sec doesn't have a sov tab anymore. i know, high-sec doesn't really need a sov tab, but even so it was nice to have a quick view of system activity with a simple click.***accessibility***this is a topic that is also close to me. we have players from all walks of life in this community, including those who play with disabilities and having more options open for accessibility. this is something that has really had no representation on within the csm to give a voice to this part of the community.myself, i am hard of hearing, deaf on my right ear, and loss in my left ear, i also have a few friends who play that are deaf and as well as and they have expressed frustrations when it comes to this portion and the fact that the majority of corps and alliances rely on voice communication, especially when it comes to fleet ops - often taking extra time to get orders, or in some cases, just completely. while ccp can<U+FFFD>t exactly do anything about that, there are options to add extra accessibility within the fleet window interface for example, and better options for fleet broadcasts. i wrote a blog post last year about this as well that i am going to go ahead and place a link below to since this hasn't changed.being deaf/hoh in eve online (blog post)on a related note to accessibility, i have also been expressed by a couple of other friends of mine about the new issues with the newer interface, importantly the transparency that you automatically have enabled at the start. why not vise versa, take out the transparency and the window blur and just leave it as an option for thoes who do wish to use it.or perhaps a voice over system/capability such as suggested here by jaling orion. there is also many games out there that also has color blind features; why not have these features within eve as well? basic game accessibility strategies: (source)hearing impairment and visual impairment enhance stimuli: for example, high contrast color scheme, increased font size, color blind friendly color scheme and zoom options. replace stimuli: for example, subtitles or closed captioning, audio cues, sonification, speech synthesis or haptic cues.motor impairmentsreplace input: for example, support for direct voice input or a brain-computer interface. reduce input: for example, switch access scanning and remove or automate inputs.cognitive impairment reduce stimuli: for example, limit the number of game objects, or simply the storyline. reduce time constraints: for example, slow down the game. reduce input: for example, remove or automate inputs that needs to be provided.***csm x campaign revisits***a couple of things that still haven't changed that i still think are important to be on the campaign. for the full thread you can click here, but points of relevance are below.missions: missions are redundant, add some new and fresh story-lines instead of playing through the same missions over and over again. here is my favorite quote i made during csm x:<U+FFFD>damsel in distress needs you to save her!<U+FFFD> *rolls eyes* her again? hasn't she learned by now? can<U+FFFD>t i just go there and blow her up for being a stupid moron? she keeps getting herself in this mess! let her get herself out of it! geeze ... mining environments: adding something small as a intensive/reward (right word?), to mining a asteroid completely, such as a denser version of the asteroid you mined (albeit the amount would be very small that would 'drop', but it would still add something extra when the roid goes -poof-)***closing notes***with all that, i do want to thank you for taking the time to look at my campaign thread and i hope that i have your support in voting for me in the upcoming elections for csm xi. please reply with any questions/comments you may have. if elected, i will do my best for you, the community, and work hard! i promise you i won't disappoint! thank you again!***my endorsements***me of course!joffy aulx-gao (testimonial) ***testimonials/support***all my support and testimonials will be listed and view-able on my website: click here to view***links & contact information***in-game: erika mizunetwitter: @djyumeneskype: yumenechane-mail: djyumene@gmail.commy website:"
"everyone wants to log on and create content, be part of a fight, get rich and/or acquire something, build something as a team, or otherwise partake of some chaos and hilarity. however, in the current state of eve, this can be an actual challenge, for many reasons. the population distribution across space challenges content creation, and the accessibility and availability of income streams make some regions totally inviable for living, while pigeon-holing others into regions 'for' a particular purpose, which i feel is anathema to the design of a proper sandbox.i do not believe i have experienced the game from every angle, not nearly, but i do believe i am in a good position to voice player issues and opinions as player of this game, first and foremost. here are some of the issues that i personally feel need addressing the most, of which i will elaborate in full detail in future posts/updates in this thread, though many will be recapitulations of previous posts and input on the matter. a)speed creep and/or the kitey meta.this has gotten a bit better since the recent changes.b)warp speed.c)income accessibility and availability.d)the importance of npc null for new players and post-phoebe capital logistics.e)wardecs, hisec content creation in general.f)fozziesov, the newbie factory farm, brought to you by two separate and dissonant entry bars.g)afk gameplay is bad gameplay. two carrots is better than two sticks.h)jump ranges and jump fatigue.i)exploration as a profession has died thanks to escalations/saturationj)suburbanization of lowsec. k)grrgoonsfeel free to contact me in game, or by posting here directly. i want to work for you, and make new eden a place people are talking about! i look forward to your questions, comments, and issues!"
"a)speed creep and/or the kitey meta. brawling fights are hard to get these days, and it is something that many people really miss. people also are really tired of everything being so damn fast, as it really limits what you can undock as fleets, and how high the bar is for tackle. fleet and gang fights tend to be less visceral and bloody; kiting fleets can pick their fights extremely well and disengage just as easily generally. this leads to an environment that is more conductive to ganks then actual fights. even large fleets abhor brawling right now. if you are solo, especially in hostile places, yeah, kiting is fine; you need to not get caught to stand a reasonable chance of living, but it's pretty sad when stand up hundred plus man fleets are so kitey <U+FFFD> the idea of two sides fully committed and brawling it out to the bitter end is very appealing, but doesn't really happen enough. i would absolutely hate to be a newbie tackler right now; even my overheated frigate can barely keep pace with what's out there, and almost every cruiser that sees use has absurd application. how fun is it to be totally useless? things really need to slow down. the current speed creep, combined with the server responsiveness and ticks, just makes for a frustrating game that is less tactical and strains to accommodate the speeds involved; you can't even lock some things in the time they are passing through your threat range. when nothing has to commit to the field/grid, fights are inhibited. other gangs can just run or selectively disengage easily <U+FFFD> the opportunity cost for being on grid is so low; forcing a fight becomes a chore. i take a look at the most commonly used ships, and they really look like either one of the culprits of this, or something designed to deal with it. even faction webs look like they have gotten more expensive in response to dealing with this. some of the recent changes may be tilting this back towards a balance of kite and brawling, but it still needs work. obviously there should be ways for skilled players to completely dance around the blob and win, and you definitely need to be very careful so the balance does not swing too far the other way, disenfranchising kiting/speed entirely. i do realize how hard it is to operate in certain areas, and that scram range fighting is a death sentence due to cynos in heavily defended sov - i would love to see more kiting gangs causing havoc in sov space.i)exploration as a profession has died thanks to escalations/saturation.so this is something that needs to be addressed for many reasons. many people enjoyed exploration and used it to fund whatever endeavours they personally found interesting enough to pay good isk for. there as at least a faint sense of adventure and the random loot drops to make it a more interesting income source than the other options, which are horribly monotonous. the new sleeper sites were definitely a good step in the right direction, but also intrinsically had the problem of how to pay out successful players - blue loot works but is uninteresting and just dumps more liquid into the economy, and not many of the polarized weapons actually see much use. low sec deds have not suffered as much as nullsec ones, but both need to be brought up to the point where the average time spent to get a drop exceeds what you could get via missions or straight up anomaly ratting. deds, when/if they are profitable, are a great model example of a limited resource in space that encourages small gang activity, as opposed to anomalies (dock up or move to another system) or fw plexes/missions (move to another mission or system). the game would do better overall with more cases where 'cheese' is put somewhere accessible to many players, and there is potential to fight over it. cheese however, has to be limited to be worth fighting for.these are what i consider to be known or major factors devaluing the exploration loot:1)oversupply due to increased escalation rate, 2.5 to a 5% is a doubling of the escalation rate!2)oversupply due to ship meta. low sec deds haven't fared as badly, because cruiser loot has a healthy demand due to everyone being in cruisers and lower. battleships on the other hand, are still in a terrible spot - you know there's something wrong on the ship meta end when people don't want to fly machs or vindis.3)oversupply due to sov mechanics. i am not entirely sure how much of a factor this is overall, but i'm sure a person with the right statistics to actually make a model of could give me the effect size of karmafleet on rattlesnake prices.4)oversupply due to saturation. the few weeks after odyssey released were a great time to be a newbie; all you needed was a week or so of skills to be able to make hundreds of millions off blue salvage. even more, the newbie that took risks and went to dangerous space was rewarded handsomely compared to the ones that did not. prices slowly tanked and have gone down ever since as more and more people wanted to get in on this 'gold rush' of extremely valuable salvage clouds. basically, this activity has been systematically wiped out over the past 6-12 months, or at least put in the gutter. players want it restored, refined, and upgraded. it was one of the 'fun' ways to make money for some, except now it really doesn't pay like it used to. either an expansion of the loot tables to include missing deadspace mods, which would only be available in scanned down sites as opposed to escalated ones, or another more novel solution is required to restore this profession to the game, making it once again profitable and worth the time, danger, and opportunity cost. it is a major flaw in game design, especially apparent when explaining to people about the various ways to make isk, that one of the most common ways to earn bread and butter income is to be mostly afk - this neither challenges nor excites players."
"will be a good challenge getting in this year. it shall be grand! i am looking foreward to the process.best of luck to all who take it seriously o7"
