"quite a few more people gank than i think you realize. when the impeirum does a burn [system] even lots of people who normally do not gank, gank. it is a very fun time, hop in fleets and chat in fleet chat or on ts, watching clueless freighters becoming burnt out hulks, and even better turning them into burnt out hulks.you can login to relax (in fact the burn events are fun and a good way to relax, plenty of fleets, the logistics guys have put up a crap ton of contracts so pre-fit ready to go ships are plentiful, much more relaxed than a sov fight., etc.)....you just can't be stupid about it and it doesn't hurt to understand the damn game you are playing. you are safe nowhere...accept that and accept that you'll eventually die and it is a whole lot less worrying when you login.as for those whining about the possibility of being ganked follow these steps:1. click the start button2. click control panel3. click programs4. click uninstall a program.....problem solved, you'll never be ganked again.or you can change your attitude and accept ship losses as part of the game. be it ganking or pvp. look at it as a learning experience...how can you do better."
"no - i am too old to change attitude. i will uninstall the game the second i stop to enjoy it on my terms. i am already doing it the best it can be done.there are many more games out there that are probably better and it is not up for me, or you, or anybody else than ccp to decide what they want from their game.out of curiosity - do you think that ccp should scrap the whole idea of high sec and retire concord entirely? the game numbers should expolde, right?"
"only the crybabies like you would leave"
"why is that when somebody makes a point alot of people think taking the counter point to a completely idiotic extreme somehow refutes the initial point?perhaps you should invest in a dictionary...or heck just use google, \"definition balance\". that should help you out."
"because someone had to bring it up.our default underwear provision, for both male and female characters is, for want of a better word, pants.whilst i'm not suggesting that underwear be necessarily introduced as an apparel item, some customization options during creation / editing / both would be, i'm sure, welcomed with open arms by the vast majority of the community.the first person who promises to champion this gets all my votes, even if i don't particularly like them.#pvcthongsforall"
"finally, my dreams of my spaceship warrior having a lace g-string will be realized."
"is no one else interested in having their standings in their eve gate?"
"first place on my list"
"what's your response to sion's problems, and how will you react to them if you get elected?this is already out in the public view, so you should have no problems answering."
"i think many of the problems sion, sugar, sort and others faced were the result of mismanagement on part of ccp, couple that with communication break downs and have you a recipe for disaster. ccp appears legitimately interesting in salvaging relations as they have put new people in charge of the csm and made assurances of civility. if by some misfortune remnants of these problems exist, i am a very enduring and persistent individual. i can handle being berated and insulted by people i look up too. i won't be a better csm than sion or anybody. i will be a different kind of csm. i think even my worst detractors would agree that different~ is preferred at this juncture."
"certainly not your kind of '~different', though. not with your attitudinal maladjustments."
"you judge black and white , good start :p"
"yeah, it is better when campaigning without having any support from the establishment to have a clear message. i am campaigning against the establishment you represent as you guys are twisting the csm role to your own ends, and depriving independent players from a voice. something you would know but not say as you are on a null sec power group bloc vote endorsements. you are either a puppet or a decoy, and i can't even say you put much effort into your own campaign, this post is certainly noteworthy in that regard. d- for effort!"
"fafer pings \"vote me for csm or kick from corp\""
"thank you for the support!"
"my previous post was designed to be provocative and accusatory, you are the only candidate with 'high sec care bear'. so thank you for taking the time to answer my concerns. i love this game and i believe in the csm.i have voted in the last two csm's, this will be my third. i joined eve a couple of months before a csm, despite only playing for almost two years now.mr azariah was not a great highsec rep. most of the bus mail consists of poor typing, giving ships away to probably alts and trying to get newbro's to join pvp fleets. most of us where under no illusion that he would make high sec better, but we had hope it wouldn't get worse, and too mike's credit, it hasn't. however, it is stagnant, and it still feels like the community and ccp don't actually want us in the game that much. i personally believe this is the root cause for the high sec apathy of which you speak.when i saw your post on the candidate forums i though, hoorah a high sec dude, a beacon to hold back the swelling ocean of \"your not playing eve right' voices, of which there are many. you don't need to represent null/sov/low or wh's, the game is dripping with players eager to represent these areas. if your stating you represent the high sec care bear, yes balance is key, but at the end of the day, you need to represent us, the highsec care bears.i pi, mine/research/copy/invent/make, and run lvl4's, that can no way be described as having to much reward, the loot is pants, the bounty's, unless doing missions like worlds collide or the extravaganzas are often only 2 - 5 million, and the lp/isk/standing from the agent (with all relevant social skills at lvl5) is offensively low for the time it takes to complete most of them.my father always said \"only boring people get bored\" mining is a excellent time to read or even work, i often have eve running while i work, just sitting in a barge mining, and popping into a wh for a bit of the good stuff is certainly not boring. the mention of moving asteroids/comets is a outstanding idea, or harder rats that come and say hello from time to time.this year there is a poor choice/representation for high sec, esp with candidates like annexe and gorski car getting better % on the vote match for some of the high sec concerns. both have clearly stated pve needs more work, high sec should feel safe (to a point, no one sensible wants 100% safety) and ganking should not always profit the ganker. when cold hard killers and scammers take this position it shows clearly that true pvpers are not that interested in high sec or killing noobs there, it's a relatively small group of people with one specific ideal, and nothing we can't or don't already deal with.so...i would like to hear your opinions on npc corps building pos's,"
"so what again were you hoping to achieve by provoking and accusing me?good for you! then vote, make an informed choice of candidate (there are enough possibilities and blogs out there) and motivate your friends to vote.there you go again... provoking. work just got temporarily busy because of unplanned illnesses... if i get the chance i will try and get back to this for more detail later...npc corps building pos's -> not a big fan of npcs building player owned structures. not without such changes to wardecs and so on....let npc corps have access to station amenity's -> i mentioned in my thread, my last year's thread and i think on my blog what i think about having options for social corporation-like structures. iirc leaving npc corps has been proven to aid player retention...how do you feel about allowing players to leave the starter corp but rejoin should the player corp experience not satisfy their play style -> i always wanted to join \"minedrill\". maybe opening up the variability of npc corps might help avoid those hats you mention... but i think we should be looking at ways to incentivise player created and controlled organisations...and lastly, what do you think about letting dreads/carriers and lvl5 missions into highsec? -> dreads no, not really. carriers also not really. lvl5 missions... well i would like to see more variety in the missions, but somewhere the line has to be drawn between high and other sec... if we make lvl5 missions in high sec... then we have to introduce higher lvl missions elsewhere... which will inevitably bring us back to where we are now. kind of like a circle.thanks again for your time. -> if i wasn't being provoked and accused i might have taken more time on the coffee break to answer things more in depth. o7 don't knock mike. but well i don't really know what you were getting at in your post anyway... the bus mails did not directly have anything to do with representing on the csm..."
"just thought i would share a mail (with permission of the original author) that is fairly typical of the message i am getting from high sec people that might support me. this is (one of) the reasons why i took so long this year before announcing my candidacy. any \"high sec\" orientated platform, irrespective of how reasonable it tries to be, has to deal with the apathy of the high sec residents, compared to the massive null-blocs. every voter or supporter that stops, because of disillusionment with the process or the institution, damages the highsec candidates more than their null-brethren.it is an uphill struggle.re: csm xi from: a supportersent: 2016.01.14 22:34 to: lorelei ierendi, list of other supportershi lorelei,i'm not sure if there will be a csm endorsement list for/from community this year. i did it the last two years with the feedback from some others but by now i'm convinced that the csm as a whole does more harm than good - especially long term. while i'm certain that there are a few individuals who really have the wellbeing of the game at heart and who do good and constructive work on the csm, many others try to use it to drive the agenda of their respective nullsec bloc, profit from it personally or worse: are sockpuppets for their bloc leaders.unfortunately ccp doesn't include an option to abstain from voting in order to differentiate people like me from people who have never heard of the csm or that there is a vote for it (and there are many), so not voting at all is the only choice ccp gives me and that is what i intend to do.so unless somebody else steps up in order to dive into the numerous threads in the csm forum and other sources and put together a list of good candidates, there won't be a csm list from community this year.however: feel free to drop into the channel at any time to present and discuss your ideas with the residents.also: please be aware that this is my personal opinion, not that of the community moderation team as a whole.cheers,a supporterhaving an option to \"actively\" abstain from voting is one of the things i would advocate... a way to tell the difference between apathy and disillusionment."
"again, your position on the rorqual?what and why."
"a vote for steve ronuken is a vote for a better api, for everyone.the amount of work steve ronuken does for the 3rd party development community is exceptional.steve ronuken have my full endorsement."
"voted. #no1"
"i don't know noobmsn personally but hk is the bane of wh life."
"heey mijn vote heb je :)"
"thanks for all the nice tweets, mails, forum replies and convo's i had with you all the last weeks. awesome ! go vote for the csm, even if you dont want to vote for me...."
"vote if you want an a-g buff to kill code :)thieving pirates discuss integrity; anarchist gankers give us laws; and whoring merc's cry then blow off clients with insults."
"2 from me mate. good luck and remember not to expect any gratitude if you win."
"hehe, thanks !"
"i read a lot of that and can't really find answers to some of my concerns, which i would like your opinion on.a)you seem to be pushing for increasing wardec costs per week, but this really won't help - at all. as soon as, say, pirat is at the end of their cost/effectiveness cycle on a corp or alliance, another one of the big wardec alliances, say vendetta mercenary group, will just pick that corp or alliance up. b)there's still no way to effectively end the wardec. you seem to get that the main problem with hs ganking is there's no real way for the good guys to counter a gank in progress, or not many, and every situation where there is not interaction and game play, or the potential for those, between sides, makes for a very dull game. many large wardec alliances have hundreds of wardecs, with lots on very pvp oriented groups, but they really know better than to try to get a fight out of wardeccers, so they don't bring a fight to hi sec, because they won't get one. basically, wardeccers have no skin in the game - just like gankers, they can just do the deed and dock up, or ratters can just warp to a safe when a hunter or gang is 5 jumps out. i wouldn't mind wardeccers if you could actually fight back, but the sheer number of large pvp alliances that are wardecced show otherwise. as it is, wardecs aren't a tool for generating content, they are just a way to get free kills off people who are ignorant of mechanics. i have seen nothing in your proposals to actually make wardecs an actually opposed thing where the defender could win the war and be done with it, which quite frankly is needed."
"a. no i'm not for increasing the war dec costs. i'm saying the cost should be calculated on the average age on all active characters. younger average age makes it more expensive, older cheaper. protect newbies, slaughter vets.b. anti gankers need more tools to counter. we need to buff the watch lists, so war dec alliances can focus more on specific targets and need less wars. no watch lists and they need twice as much wars."
"age means nothing with skill injectors now."
"good luck rf gnaeus crassus, you have all of my votes!!!!"
"gnaeus is a wonderful thoughtful man and i fully support his run.good luck!"
"vote vic jefferson for csm xi"
"csm watch analysis 5 is out, regardless if you agree or disagree on the panel's opinion of me it's worth a check out."
"so when are you joining goonswarm :p."
"what about players that have that have no knowledge how to use the api/crest provided info (there are some public tools provided by certain players) ?"
"for our final interview, dotoo foo kindly answered some questions for us.link here"
"2 bananas thrown your way. let's see what a monkey shows when he climbs to a greater height."
"come in and look out, welcome to my campaign for 2016 csm the 11th alias ixcsm matchplaying since: april 2013you will mostly find me in 0.0 than in wh and than maybe in low- or high-sec.use this thread for questions :)"
"you are a funny please continue.google does not help, when you lack basic comprehension skills. you can google \"point\", but i doubt it will bring any result in your case.i do not care about you and please, do not feel entitled to care about me and my perception of a internet pixels game. if i think the game is ****, because of x, you are welcome to argue that i am wrong because of y. arguing that i am wrong because i am z is kindergarten. i will not change, deal with it.now - back to the topic:ccp randomguys are developers. they are paid salaries to design a game. they can be hired and they can be fired. they are in charge of the design, but shareholders and executives should care more about the revenues. and it is responsibilty of shareholders and executives to make sure design changes result in more money, not less. the mmo market has grown a lot in the last 10 years - has eve matched that growth?if ccp wants to focus on the masochistic/gambling types of gamers - that is a valid choice. eve is not going to die - ultima online is still around. however - if they want more revenues - they should do more for the game appeal to the wider audience."
"now you are being deliberately obtuse. your counter example was completely and totally moronic. nobody has advocated for removing hs and/or concord. ns and hs need each other. so i have never advocated such a completely stupid and foolish position. you brought it up try and be clever, but you failed miserably and showed us you cannot provide a cogent response.eve has always been a niche game and it is one of the few sandbox games. sandbox games mean you can do what you want so long as you are willing to face the in-game consequences. making it so you can no longer do that is a fundamental change to the game.despite being told all this when you first started playing, you are playing the wrong game. you sit there and want the game change to suit your needs despite the fact that the vast majority of players know what the game is about and changing it could drive out a very large number of players well before they could be replaced by players looking for theme park style games.so your argument is weak at best. and please, spare us the \"there are lots of people in hs\". first, not all of them view the game like you do. second, how many of them are ns alts? i have 2 characters that live in hs. and then there are those who live in hs and are fine with the sandbox nature of the game. so just pointing to the number of players in hs is not at all useful."
"do not forget the plus sized figures, even sports illustrated now has one source:"
"are you on boosters? why are you posting in this section of the forums?"
"+1and what do you think about having the t3d's suffer a skill loss like t3 cruisers to balance them out and avoid further nerfing them as they are?as it is, i think it takes 12 days to lvl 5 a racial skill for a t3d. about 10 with a full respective remap "
"saying it was ccp's fault and not failures by all parties involved is just shifting blame. the csm's and the general population of eve are just as much to blame as ccp."
"this might amuse you, xen. jenshae puts on a tinfoil hat and d-scans for nargles"
"you are an inspiration to me. as someone who is very nearsighted i have to say that having a csm who fights for those of us who have trouble with the ui and not being able to see it clearly due to the lack of font/display controls is hard to play eve with. for instance there is no font control in the game browser. what you see is what you get. this is not acceptable. the amount of obstacles you have overcome and the gallantry you display makes me proud of you. i would love to have you represent us as a csm.anyone with a limitation is just as capable at mastering the intricacies of this game and we should not have to battle with the ui to accomplish this. thank you for running! you are my number 1 choice for csm!"
"i like this chick ,, how can i vote for this one"
"thanks for the support! you can vote by going here:"
"i vote for lord vaari for he has given upon to me the sacred promise of a tiara fit for my protuse neckbeard head. my support for afk and provi block is as unwavering as lord vaari's faith in our god, the high lady, aswell the citizens of new eden, and as such, would make him, in my humble opinion, a perfect csm candidate."
"vote for vaari is vote for yourself."
"jin'taan!some questions for you.1. what kind of improvements to the ui would you like to see, that would help you fc large fleets better?2. how would you handle rebalancing t3 cruisers and destroyers? (this is likely to come up during your term, if you were elected)3. how would you balance the isk making ability between high sec missions, high sec incursions, and nullsec anoms/deds?4. what do you think about the proposed rorq change, which puts it in the belt, but gives it a massive aoe shield for the mining fleet? do you think people in provi will risk their 2.5b isk ships?good luck, man!"
"you get my vote!!!"
"a few things, i would like to see carried forward:tech 3 should be about utility, not power. power creep is bad for mmos. more utility, more skill required. so newbies can still work as a team with more skill and beat a veteran in a high utility ship, rather than be tanked and killed even if they have it scrambled and webbed.the longer it will take a new player to be significant and useful the less likely they are to stay in a game. eve is a sandbox.provide more tools to fight, to defend, to take actions against other players. the current direction of high sec where the mechanics try to protect players is not healthy for eve. that is very wowish.example: recognising coalitions in the mechanics or fleets for a purpose or sub-set groups taking on a role, would be a few options for null sec to fly out and kick war dec corps in the soft spots.empower players, eve will die if it becomes wow in space or progress quest eve edition.make eve deeper and widercreate different ways to play eve. since incarna we have had iterations upon what already existed. let us walk through the door and into a dust social area.let us make ship interiors for ccp moderation and implementation.allow us to assemble ships with different balance templates in station. (like a projectile cyclone)emergent play does not come from things like fozzie sov where you mine a structure with a laser. that is less complex but very shallow mechanics."
"thanks for stopping by! like i said yesterday... the rest of the week looks to be catastrophically busy at work, so i'll save an in depth response for when i have time to formulate it properly!but, have you raised these issues with the candidate that you support? as i said, time is pressing and i don't want to spend the valuable bits surfing through other people's campaign-threadnaughts... so if you could send me a link of his answers that would be valuable!"
"steve: i haven't seen any statement from ccp about who will take over crest and 3rd party support when foxfour leaves. is there some continuity planned or are we going back to the dark ages?i'll bite: his code quality could be better"
"glad you are running again. - \"hub humping station gamey neutral logi warspam wankery\" -ralph king-griffin-"
"as a fellow industrialist, you get my vote! please hammer ccp to update the pi interface. it is long overdue for an overhaul that has not been done for over 8 years. thank you."
"you have my vote(s) - as the tammany and chicago bosses said, vote early and vote often!well, at least once per account...thank you for your third party work - i use your site most every day."
"grrr! (i'm a sysadmin, not a professional programmer. )anyway, i'd expect the rest of his team to take it up. he's part of team techco who are a nice bunch of people."
"the rorquals need work. and they're getting it.they will be required to be in belts, but that's because, in general, off grid boosting is a very very dull mechanic."
"scottish....... if you go to the next glasgow meet and buy me a pint you have my vote"
"epigene, you did indeed recruit me to wormhole. everyone it's his fault.nerapa, your a worm bro i'd buy you a pint just for that. can you imagine the scope \"pints for votes\"gate rocks csm."
"you have my vote."
"it means \"less\" might be more accurate."
"it does, as a young char with a lot of sp is still a young char aka newbie (or alt of course). and yes, theoretically a corp could delete all characters, create a new one, inject x sp and play. but i dont think many will do, as your char says something about you and we are proud of our history. only ones i could see do this right now are multiboxing miners or gankers. in most cases they do it for profit and extracting/injecting skills is not cheap."
"the ditanian alliance supports @bobmoneve @fuzzysteve and myself for csm. thanks guys, appreciated !"
"\"hey guys, you bored of (worm holes / null sec)?\" \"yeah, ofc, not enough nubs to shoot\"\"cool want to make some alts in a new high sec corp with all that dank isk we made and abuse tora's mechanics?\"\"yeah, dude, sounds awesome.\""
"thanks eve_nt -"
"great!then you will love talking with me as my threads are used as references for solutions.... and i am sure you remember this and this.... and strangely enough, a lot of what i suggest has been implemented in one form or another. now, i don't think that is because of me. i think most of human invention is derivative of ideas that proceeded them. it is just simply quite nice to see that i think in the right directions. edit:this is hilarious. same as last year.if tora finds he can not talk and debate then he resorts to declaring war. much like how a bully or thug would try and punch you because they ran out of words.so what do you guys think?when tora can not debate things with other csm members do you think he will try use some useless little wars to try and change their minds? always good for a laugh. thank you."
"any chanse you want to do something about afk cloackers ?"
"you have my vote! i love red froggers! *hug*"
"vote with your saq....your harry saq"
"i'm not entirely certain what you're asking about, but additional api endpoints benefits almost every eve player. whether it's to check your eve-mails from your phone, or to import fits from pyfa into eve directly, or even simply to look at the killboards, third party apps help make the game more accessible.for developers, more api endpoints means more tools to help manage characters, corps, groups etc. i currently have a petition out to ccp foxfour (hopefully he can get around to it before he leaves ) to get an improvement to the fw map xml api. for aspiring developers, there are plenty of resources to choose from, and countless guides online on how to read or access such data. for non-developers, what matters the most is the scope of what third party apps let you read or access while away from the client."
"after asking capri about 40 questions, it is safe to say that all my accounts will have him in the #1 position.feawen likes capri"
"you seem like a really nice player. why you are in pandemic legion who are known to be so rude is a shock to me. they have tried on many occasions to smartbomb my transport in the pipeline between jita and hek. i will overlook your poor choice of corps and still vote for you however. this game needs more influential nice people to balance out the hard core jerks and psychopaths that play eve."
"for all the people who are on the fence about their last few votes, chiimera and innominate were the only cfc individuals on my personal list of csm reps i supported.take that knowledge as you will."
"dotoo foo sounds like an interesting candidate and has my support.you can check out other candidates and my endorsements on my official post here.the csm xi election are now open until march 25th, 2016. consider niko lorenzio for csm xi."
"since your a fellow pi'er you get my vote. hopefully you will address the ridiculous lack of updates required to bring pi into the current modern interface of eve. it is the only aspect of eve not upgraded and long overdue.is it really necessary to have white mining extractor on top of a white ice planet over a white minerals overlay? white on white on white is incredibly painful to stare at when doing pi. please, oh dear lord, if someone could address this issue. i am tired of banging my head against the forum requests to get this changed."
"there are times that eve's default colour map's choices are ... interesting ... to the point of preventing some players playing parts of the game. what i find difficult to read, others find impossible.i should be fighting with other players, or red crosses on a map, and not with a colour pallette.thanks niko, rhivre and syrinx."
"soooooooo why am i not on the ballot? did i miss a step in the process? did i miss an email or something? what?"
"the main reason why my friends don't play eve is they don't have the time for it.never before in history man had so much leisure time like us, but there are also so many things you can do with your time as ever before. so why should someone spend or waste a large proportion of its free time for just one thing, if during the same timespan multiple other equally fun things can be done?the greatest strength of eve is also its greatest weakness. it's the amount of time this game takes of your life.after thousands of hours in game even i'm not sure anymore if it's worth it."
"i think that is part of the problem. lots of players are now older and they have families, careers, etc. that take them away from the game and in many cases maybe permanently. and these players won't come back if the game becomes a theme park, imo."
"+1 for mankini optionedit: dont google that"
"no. no, they should google that. every view eventually makes its way to my agency and then my wallet. i gotta eat and keep the lights on."
"you can barely see pants, if at all in portraits so i don't see the harm in this."
"voted for xenuria.watch the...er...feel the burn!"
"<U+FFFD>i don<U+FFFD>t worry about the haters<U+FFFD> they are just angry because the truth i speak contradicts the lie they live.<U+FFFD>voted for fafer"
"nice interview mate. not bad for a first-timer. you can enjoy my vote sir."
"the sexiest."
"thanks for the pizza/pasta og fam love guys. i do support amnesty for the samurai who brought a lot of scrubs into pvp and gave them guts.new simple video - share with anyone."
"i vote for this guy because i like his style good luck"
"lord vaari has the votes of all my accounts. best wishes,tasha"
"lord vaari has the votes of all my accounts and my wives' accounts."
"-1,clearly isnt even showing what he actually is gonna add to the game, aside from random non-sense.csm is thing to be taking serious and this gentleman is clearly not."
"im not gentleman, im lord. is it not taking seriously when i clearly tell my goals? luxury stuff, including new medals and other awards, clothes and such. or are you so poverty ridden peasant that when you cannot afford a simple monocle, you take only +/- 1,5% for some weapon or speed seriously?"
"hi vaari.1. what do you think about the addition of the long-requested lab coats and anime armor?2. also what do you think about the addition of medal-studded jean vests like the one worn by neal breen in double down?3. do you think that characters should get more hair options such as proper afros, mullets, bobs, etc.,?4. and lastly what kind of ship skin colors would you like to see?i hope that we serve on csm 11 together."
"so, i've been listening to your last appearance on the jeffraider show, and i have to see i'm really glad i voted for you. your point about the dichotomy about pve and pvp, and the forced separation between pve and pvp fits, is pretty much what i have been thinking about for a long time. and i totally agree with the notion that making pvp fits the defacto fits would ease more people into pvp. those who disagree think that it is not a good idea because they wouldn't get *all* carebears to start pvping, that's faulty thinking. fw plexes have not made all their users into pvpers, but they still made *some* of them into people ready to sometimes stand their grounds. this is what eradicating all those pve fits could do to eve as a whole, ease people into being active in the tisk/reward equation instead of the binary running away at the first sign of trouble. anyway, i really hope you make it into the csm, we could use more people that are not afraid of the pvp potential of the game."
"why do you feel the \"free intel\" doesn't hinder gankers more than it helps them? miners or haulers will usually be at predictable places (ice anom, ore anom, belts, transiting gates). on the other hand a gank fleet can hide out at any spot off-grid, but is easily seen in local."
"good question.an answer is:gank fleets will usually have members that have a negative sec status and will therefore be at predictable places (eg docked up to avoid faction police...) and only undocking to gank. then they will undock and attack. there are many systems where there are more anomalies and belts than stations."
"when csm 11 campaign started, i hoped steve is going to announce his candidacy. i encourage all industrialists to vote for you because we are the one who need you there not the other direction!one thing i would like you to address with ccp. please make citadel or other new structures more social friendly for manufacturers by protecting their assets and their (running corp's jobs). maybe like not giving anyone the right to cancel your job and not allowing anyone to access your assets in a corp's division unless you want! otherwise we will still see those 3 alts's manufacturing corps! thanks again"
"#ivoted4steve"
"thank you very much for your help"
"thanks for the support guys! if you have time to give feedback on wardecs, jason quixos has a great thing going with the wardec project and could always use more feedback."
"+1 you got my votes."
"noobman do u have a comment on the nerf to wspace scouting coming in citadels ? eg - ships are now hidden(docked) in citadels so scouts dont see them when dscaning system (where as before you could check for active pilots by dscaning a forcefield (followed by warping to the pos). this combined with watchlists removal means a signicant nerf to scouting and hence content creation in w space.please represent those of us that who dont just go to null for kills !\"...ppl need to get out of caves and they will see something new.... thats where eve is placed... not in cave.\" | zoonr-korsairs |"
"what about a script that instead of warp interdiction generates an inertia-penalizing bubble? thus providing a chance to catch interceptors (and nullified t3s), but forcing a choice (or teamwork) rather than bubbles being a mechanic for catching everything?"
"it's like when you have a nice conversation going with people on numerous subjects and then suddenly some bully joins in, starts talking on how important he is, linking to all kind of irrelevant posts and thinking he is the center of the universe. then you have to punch him in the virtual face and put em back in his spot. hit hard enough to keep em quiet, so the rest of the group can continue their nice chats. the end (happy one)"
"it flies right past you, doesn't it?you wrote, \"crying is easy, solutions are hard,\" in reply to one of my posts. so, i then linked proof that i provide solutions, that even ccp have acknowledged them and used them as a resource.... and you responded with a war ... a war on a null sec alliance ... that after years you haven't realised that; anything of importance is done by neutrals and not by blues. so your war is completely ineffectual.congratulations. you have demonstrated that war mechanics are broken but we already knew that, again, for years.... and no. you have a distinct lack of kills against me to be claiming you have landed any punches.your in game moves are as impotent as your csm plans to push your one agenda. all you are trying to do is lobby for your own selfish interests and pretending to be weighing both sides of it."
"i see you are still trying to say that the rl tora and game tora are different! then you post this!do you remember the quote i put as answer to one of your forum posts? i wiill repost it here for you incase you forgot.\"lies have no legs, they cannot walk far\"please stop pretending you are bringing anything else to the csm table as all you are bringing is your ego and double standards."
"the man we all need."
"what is your opinion on monocles ?"
"what is this joining goons business about?the csm xi election are now open until march 25th, 2016. consider niko lorenzio for csm xi."
"i am running completely independently, not tied to any power bloc or other metagame influence. i just care about the quality of the game and providing useful reasoned feedback."
"i owe my five supporters an apology. while talking with ccp about proper id, i apparently replied to my own emails rather than sending them to ccp. so ccp never got my id, and i was not put on the ballot. goddamn it google, why is your interface stupid.my bad. i'll be back next year though assuming we don't all die in a fire."
"i've wasted like 15 minutes trying to find where i'm supposed to vote.ktnksbi"
"and there is an other issue, the monthly fees. i for myself don't have problems with that but if you don't have that much time, why paying for something you may only play for a few hours per week. there are a lot of games out there who are for free.that leads to the next problem, multiple accounts. as if paying for one account isn't bad enough, if you look through the forums you get really quick the impression that you need several accounts with specialized characters to be successful. that quadruples the monthly fees.well sure you can pay for those accounts with your ingame income but then you would play just to pay for your accounts. where's the fun in that?if you have no job or life, this may be attractive. for all others it's a reason more to decide against a game that is seemingly only played by no real lifers."
"or you know...you could have friends in game."
"...or in real life. what's your point?"
"having alts is not a must have requirement. in fact, in many cases having several players vs. several alts will be better on average."
"i agree.the reason why i mentioned it is because it was one of the things non eve players told me about this game.here my experiences why they don't play eve are, beside they aren't into science fiction stuff, on number one the time and on second place the costs."
"i think the first point is the most significant....if you aren't that into scifi, why pick this mmo. yes, it can be a time consuming game. however, there are ways around that, but yes then you run into your last point--money. if you do not want to grind for isk and wait for sp to build up, then you can shell out some rl cash and side step that.but i don't see how that is any different than many of these free to play mmos. people start out playing \"for free\" then they get tired of the grind (which in some ways is worse in these mmos as it really does require your time, whereas in eve you can at least acquire sp even while logged out) so they get out the credit card and soon it is the special whatever to earn more xp/in game currency, then maybe converting psuedo-xp into real xp (i recall world of tanks had something like this in world of tanks). next thing you know you've shelled a surprisingly large amount of cash but you didn't realize it because they were nickle and diming you or they had those nice specials, you want to spend $5, but you see that $25 special offer that lets you get 7x whatever you were going to buy. that is why i quite playing those games as they were more...almost...sneaky at getting you to pay cash. with eve i pay for a year, and i know it is about $11/month and nothing more."
"another plus for wis would be able to meet with the ground troops which will be from the new pc based fps game to plan things out.essentially, there are many, many pros to this that increase the immersion of our beloved dystopian universe.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"hello bukkathere are many things with the ui that can be improved from font size to placement of buttons and even how you control certain things. i hope i can adress those to ccp. not everything will be looked at but hopefully some of the changes will be implemented.i appreciate all the support i get from all of you voters :) have a nice day and fly safejoffy aulx-gao"
"voting for my main man faffy +6"
"time for me to reproduce another mail from a supporter, as a counter-point to the one i posted earlier. naturally reproduced with the permission of the author:from: a supportersent: 2016.03.03 07:22 to: lorelei ierendihello, ms. ierendi.i apologize for the unsolicited email regarding your campaign for csm.i am an independent industrialist (ceo of corporation) focusing on planetary commodities, as well as (eventually) venturing into the production of t2 frigates (specializing in exploration vessels).my corporation is based out of empire space, and tends to stay in systems over .6, due to the concord presence. i have been overwhelmed with spam regarding the csm elections, and have (until now) voiced that i would abstain from voting. let's be honest, most of the candidates are there to push their agendas to shape eve's development around their null-sec feuds. very few players care what happens in high sec, and (more often than not) when i get involved in these discussions, i hear the opinion \"if you want it safer, play wow. eve's not the game for you\". i disagree, and i feel that i can enjoy the environment as much as any null-sec player.on a whim, i went to the csm campaign forums, and found your thread. i have to say, i was inspired. i have decided to get involved, and to cast my vote for you. there's a problem, though; i am a relatively new player, and i have no idea how/where to cast my vote. is there a resource you can direct me to, so that i can learn how to vote for you?thank you for taking the time to read my email, and i hope to hear from you soon.regards,a supportercorporationso never give up, never surrender!"
"yup brodit, is pretty damn cool."
"i feel like that would have a huge knock on effect. what would stop someone using it against something like a battlecruiser, or god forbid, a battleship? at the core of it, this is an issue with interceptors and nullified t3's. the driving force behind these ideas for change is a debuff to \"ships that are safe\" more than a \"buff to hictors\"."
"well the monthly fee kept me ten years ago from joining the game, but now i agree eve is cheap in comparison to many free to play games. that brings us back to the question why ccp failed for years to convince for example me to join its club of capsuleers? maybe they simply failed to bring the message of a really cool game despite the fees to me? who knows.but people are short sighted, with exception of you dear reader of course. monthly fees - free, monthly fees - free.... that people very probably will pay over time more for a f2p game isn't in their minds at the beginning.i don't suggest ccp should change that, the contrary. but i still think it's a reason that has an effect to some degree."
"this is true, i see a lot of people who dont play eve saying a monthly sub is old fashioned and puts them off. i of course file these people under 'probably wasnt an eve player anyway' and move on with my life."
"for a large portion of logged-in time where i'm not in the middle of spaceship-content, it would be much more enjoyable to spend time sitting around a table with my friends in-game avatars, playing cards, gambling, with the backdrop of the solar system through a large windowed wall of the station and perhaps a bar behind us.in such a situation i'm sure the devs could come up with some way of providing interesting boosters/services from the bartender, perhaps integrate in-game attributes in some manner.more than anything, just being able to enjoy the very nice looking characters/customization in the presence of others, play/bet in a situation where i can relax as opposed to needing my full concentration as most activities in eve try to require.they'd also drastically improve their aurum/clothing sales, plus any new boosters/services they could conjure up, isk/aur both.plays well into taxes and whatnot.for highly populated places like jita, maybe have different 'decks'/'floors' to represent instances with a capacity.maybe some mechanic for an entity to own a particular 'deck'/'floor', charge taxes/fees, and change the 'deck'/'floor' name to whatever they want to attract people.perhaps a more successful strategy would be to allow 'holographic representations' of avatars from almost anywhere in k-space, requiring the actual place/'deck'/'floor' to be located in a real station somewhere and thus be contested/bought/whatever, but not requiring those wanting to participate to necessarily be docked in that station.despite the repercussions of incarna, i think most would agree that it's not that players don't want wis stuff, it was a scare from the climate of the time, what was being packaged with it, and comments by devs from those days.although i'm still surprised they haven't tapped this fairly large resource yet.i mean, for me personally, i bought aurum for some skill injectors(fairly large amount), but there's basically no chance i'll ever purchase cosmetic items if i can't actually wear them around doing anything even remotely interactive. my little envisioning of playing poker/blackjack with some buddies would be more than enough to get me spend some isk/aur on whatever customization i liked."
"hello, is this thing on? greetings csm, i'm lulu lunette, ceo of savage moon society.decided to do a bit of investigating the other day since is no longer.i wondered if ccp consulted with either brave or eve university before just dumping the task of keeping an official wiki and how-to to the generous third party community in our community.i don't really know anyone from brave, so i ended up in eve universities diplomat channel and i asked them if ccp had even checked with them first and they said \"no.\" i admit i was venting my frustration a bit in the chat, and they did direct me to tell my csm about my concerns so this is why i'm here. they also reminded me that it was okay because they are a charitable organization and have been around for twelve years. hey! that's great and all ...butdoes anyone else think that maybe open source is suddenly being taken for granted? i'm not really the best for words on this topic because i didn't realize how much i used until it was gone. literally from day one i had open. i would not be here still without that site. suddenly the joke about just dumping it to the free labor that is our playerbase is a reality.shutting down was a bad move.if it was up to me, like as a head honcho of eve university or brave newbies, i'd make a similar sudden shift in policy and close uniwiki/brave wiki to only students, faculty and donors. maybe their diplomats can coordinate and do it together.i would like to ask if there is a solid date for an replacement? there was mention that there was a future site for things like chronicles and lore stuff."
"hyde,here's a question to test your mettle... writings on some formal methods in eve-online: eve math & physics blog"
"xenuria,here's an easy question for you: writings on some formal methods in eve-online: eve math & physics blog"
"hi joffy,i like your candidacy. here's a quick question... writings on some formal methods in eve-online: eve math & physics blog"
"he finally decided to run for csm... :)"
"voting is still open, make sure to vote! :) thank you again for your support!"
"oh hai apoth,here's a quick question for you... writings on some formal methods in eve-online: eve math & physics blog"
"i did a lot of research on many of the candidates and jin'taan def has my full support. you have a second place on my ballot. good luck!the csm xi election are now open until march 25th, 2016. consider niko lorenzio for csm xi."
"jin'taaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaannnnnnnnnnnnnnnnthis dude killed my carrier back when i was a wormholer.10/10 would trade archon for a **** fit large repper niddy again.you should definatly have him somewhere on your ballot.\"face the enemy as a solid wall for faith is your armor and through it, the enemy will find no breach wrap your arms around the enemy for faith is your fire and with it, burn away his evil\""
"the click fest is bad on pi, i had to set up 32 planets today over 6 toons, i think i have arthritis in my fingers. i too think the fundamentals are ok but yes ui could do with changes. auto link would be one but just in case you get a bee in your bonnet on pi and afer killing my hands today can i offer a few more suggestions.when placing a factory and setting it for a certain blueprint, say precious metals for example, have an option that propagates that choice over all your factories that you have placed. to place a factory, set up a material and route it is 8 clicks per factory. 32 setups, roughly 7 factories per planet, that is a hell of a lot of clicks.if your route back from your extractor is over 100%, allow the upgrade to happen (assuming you have the cpu/pg) to happened without having to cancel the route, then clicking on the link to upgrade, then trying to re-route again.when placing factories, launchpads etc, allow a <U+FFFD>snap too<U+FFFD> feature that places them close together, the pain involved in trying to make that gap small is horrendousi think even these 3 changes would drastically improve quality of life when it comes to setting up pi"
"steve,i'm curious as to your answer to the following easy question?"
"steve answered correctly on slack (with some help from rhivre). +1"
"easy' he says"
"ya really want to stir the pot... give a freighter the ability to do a one system cyno-like jump with a long cooldown (or for the group thing, make a one system cyno jump possible for those ships lacking the ability via module). the pilot will have to determine a host of things before making that escape. like how soon before the aggressors jump into the system and find him, or whether or not they already have people in there waiting to start bumping again. they would have to be very diligent and it would make for some heinous cat & mouse activity, a very large mouse. a freighter pilot may still need intel regarding where he's escaping too and that would still require some help, meaning it's not a single player \"i win\" kind of thing."
"glad you are running. possibly you are the only lore-representing candidate around here. +1"
"a-hem.... >.>on a serious note, uriel landed pretty high on my own personal ballot. best of luck mate!\"face the enemy as a solid wall for faith is your armor and through it, the enemy will find no breach wrap your arms around the enemy for faith is your fire and with it, burn away his evil\""
"great!"
"admitting i have not gone through this entire thread( but i will), from a modders standpoint this should be easy to outsource, after all the f2p kmmorpgs do pretty well just with clothing and item sales. i have played a few because of friends being cheap, and naturally gamed and game tested the systems. in doing so, basic things show up: almost no collision meshes need be applied, limited numbers of characters ( and therefore player's system rendering requirements) can be packed into smaller instanced \"dungeons\" ( corridors/bars/casinos/hangars/cqs). certain physics can be completely writen off because why would you need to bunny hop in a station? amazingly rendered plants animals and long view can be pretty well written off by the simple fact that stations are enclosed suvival spaces in extremely hostile enviornments, and such places that do have them are homes to worthless non capsuleers beneath the notice of the pod immortals. the real work would be in a new character design engine, and alot of work making more individualized clothes/apparel/accessories. this is not hard. i turned skyrim into something unrecognisable by myself in my very little spare time with basic free tools. references will not be given, this is eve, but i point out that that particular game was made on a very obsolete engine, yet looked fabulous even on a crap system like mine.therer need be no combat, this is really just about mingling and strutting your stuff in your pimped out non game breaking stuff. station enviornments don't even need to be on the same server on the same continent. loading screens can be avoided by premade and loaded access points like airlocks and elevators. i have repeatedly said things like this could be outsourced/crowd to the community. the eve community is by and large one of the more educated and tech skilled game communities in the mmo world. hold an art competition requiring the use of free tools so it is open to all. hell you could open it up and say graph paper accepted, and long as you have basic drafting layouts, top, front, side, etc. give a free copy of [maya] or a similar 3d package, and let us loose for enviornments.enviornments only, it takes alot more skill to do clothing and chracters, rigging etc. involve us! eve is known for listening to and including its playerbase in creating and refining game tools we use for content. it is also free advertising and game support (eve is made by its players!)involve us, we want to help get what we want and it doesn't give anyone extra power or abilities. the worst that can happen is that people get made fun of for bad fashion sense, which is just generate content in space, cause thats the only place combat will be happening."
"i am not good at numbers. i would just use a smartbomb. since my optimal range is forever i would be able to hit both targets."
"considering my question is something of a trick, i suppose i get what i deserve when your answer is for a non-turret ship! writings on some formal methods in eve-online: eve math & physics blog"
"sorry but obama tried that crap on me twice and i wouldn't fall for .. (yes he won without my vote) what reform? you can't promise change without telling us what you specifically want to change and expect my vote. - remove the cloaked from local; free intel is the real problem, not \"afk\" cloaking -"
"you also have to consider that i am one of the best pvpers in the game."
"joffy reasoned through this question correctly on slack. always gotta think about efficient energy transfer.+1 from mei'm voting joffy for csm xi.good luck, man. writings on some formal methods in eve-online: eve math & physics blog"
"thank you scheulagh :) i enjoyed answering a different type of question, and i learned something in the process!"
"i don't have any specific ui improvements as regards to large fleets, but i think the best change with regards to fleet fights that could be done is adding logistics to killmails. some people might like being the quiet assistants of the fleet, but many more want to wear their kb stats with pride.take away either 2, or all 3 rig slots from them. for the svipul in particular, i'd buff small arty fitting and nerf the svipuls powergrid. i think it's a way to nerf them that fits with their original intent.that's a hard question, and i'd want to discuss with a hisec representative as well, but i think the best thing that could be done would be to provide group pve that is consistent to nullsec. group work should always be worth more than solo work, as it encourages the social dynamic that is the best part of eve. i feel like hisec incursions are a little out of whack, but they only need a little bit of shaving to be brought in line. i really, really think it will be numbers dependant. i hope they provide something for the attacker to do whilst they are in their invulnerable mode, and don't leave it open to abuse. i like the idea of it providing a cyno as well, but disabling locking on all invulnerable ships, to incentive having tackle and a standing fleet to give the attackers a fight. you bet, we couldn't stop them if we tried.thanks, have a good day and thanks for the questions."
"let's start with some rl background:i'm an old fart, age 66.american veteran of the vietnam war. having engaged in rl pvp, i am not obsessed with blowing up pixels.age and injury put me at a disadvantage in a twitch contest with teenagers.currently disabled and therefore spend a lot of time on line.the pve environment in eve has a base game that if developed could be great. i have come and gone multiple times, mostly because of the attitude of ccp itself, i keep coming back in hopes the attitude has changed. it is one thing to have a bias toward one play style, it is another to kiss the ring of one group of players. adding up ccp's lost revenue from me is about $3400.00. the areas i feel ccp could improve eve in hi-sec.graphics.i am an armature astronomer with a nice 8\" telescope.as seen from space stars would be distinct points of light. in eve, stars are blurred as if looking through an atmosphere.the nebula as portrayed in eve are huge, to be that close to most nebulae a person would be fried by x-rays and gamma rays.the light diffusion as you look at the star in each solar system is that of again, as observed through an atmosphere, and not from the vacuum of space.ganking risk vs reward.the gankee takes all the risk. crime watch is an improvement, i feel it would be better if in addition to the 15 min. timer, a second 24 hour timer was attached ( perhaps black pirate icon ) that would make them a valid target for the neighborhood watch. these timers would be cumulative. you gank 5 players, you're a valid target for 5 days or until you're killed 5 times.npc corporation faction loss similar to security loss. i have 8.5 standing with say core complexion, and you have no status, you get negative status with core complexion, get enough and core complexion won't let you use their stations.piracyi'm not sure where ccp got it's idea of what a pirate was. caribbean pirates, with only a couple of exceptions, used very fast, lightly armed sloops against unarmed merchants. the goal was to steal the cargo, not sink the ship.evolution of sheep. ccp believes that humanity will evolve into a species that accepts lawlessness without exception. something along the lines of an old west town terrorizing it's citizens in perpetuity. bring in wyatt earp.license to steal. custom office monopolies granted to the select few at the time of the change. these should either be returned to interbus or allow multiple offices. this is an example of unfair bias in favor of a few, and a demonstration of how much eve is not a sandbox. the rules alone prevent me from installing a second office.sandbox myth.those who claim eve is a sandbox are those that the rules favor.if it were a true sandbox i could make a wwii \"q\" ship. an exhumer hull fitted with weapons and modules to gank the gankers.non pvp player.ccp could most likely attract and retain many that are more interested in pve, manufacturing and trade. ( expecting pvp diehards to respond with 'that's not what eve is about\", \"carebear\", \"why don't you leave then\" or any troll you want.) keep in mind, what i propose is not for low-sec or null, only high sec, to aid new players and those that are not obsessed with pvp. a change in player corporations, add a pa (private association) category. up to 3 members that are on the same account, ie a personal corporation. only other pa's can declare war on a pa. any logistics support in high-sec is an act of aggression.i have seen overzealous wanna-be pretend bad boys drive potential players away. a brand new player (less that one day old) went to recruitment channel, announced he was a new player, some trolls immediately placed a bounty on him. i added him as a contact, but he had already logged off, and 10 days later, has not logged on again, nor replied to the e-mail i sent apologizing for the bad behavior.rant is long enough."
"hi1-htfu 2-players make the ingame content, ccp provides the tools.3-i respect the fact you served an all, but eve is literally \"everyone versus everyone\".4-gankers are mostly all -10 sec status so anyone can shoot them already.someone before you already tried to have all of your ideas implemented,that someone failed because the vast majority of the player base understand that there's a risk to get popped when you undock (except the hardcore carebears)i started as a carebear, then discovered pvp when someone got ganked near me.then i started shooting people and never stopped since.the pvp aspect is what makes people stay, not doing level 4 missions and mining all day long..and finally your \"pa\" idea would only result in mercs and pirates making pas to blap other pas..lol"
"1. nice biographical information, but is it relevant? i will have you know that i am the queen and reside in buckingham palace and do not pay tax or have a passport.2. great, so an 'armature' astronomer wants to chip in with their two cents? fantastic. let's re-do what the art department has created just to be more realistic. submarines in space? never mind about that.3. 'the gankee takes all the risk'. brilliant. don't worry about the fact that the aggressor loses their ship when they violence someone else's boat - don't worry about that at all! were a player like you to have a telephone conversation with ccp, i imagine it'd go something like this:you: \"change the game, it's unfair to those players who refuse to interact with others but who get blown up without (as i see it) any repercussions!\"ccp: \"free and unfettered actions (and the attendant consequences therein) are the essence of the sandbox. what's stopping you from exercising the killrights and blapping the guy who blapped you?\"you: \"errr...change it anyway, make a level playing field!\"ccp: \"sorry, no - it would destroy the game as we know it\"you: \"no u\"4. your analogy with seafaring pirates is flawed, as - to my knowledge - caribbean pirates perhaps weren't concerned with looting the modules from their prey. in eve, that is very much a part of the piracy experience (loot fairy permitting).5. you don't have to be 'obsessed with pvp' to enjoy this game (i i'm terrible at it...doesn't stop me trying, though), but you most certainly must accept that virtually everything in eve is predicated on social interactions and dependent therein. it's not a single player game with mmo elements; it's an mmo with some single player (pve) elements - that is the truth now, and it has been the truth since the beta game servers were switched on.accepting that this is the way things are will do wonders for you; if you can't, perhaps another game may be more to your liking.in a funny way, by the way, you yourself are now a 'criminal' (in the context of the forum'), as you have breached rule 3 with your self-admitted rant:food for thought.*bumble steeples his fingers*your move, cowboy."
"i know many love the way eve works now. most of eve is open to the style they love. i will not diminish their desire nor passion for the things they want.there are others who may prefer other things. pve, trading and manufacture are a part of eve. if ccp does not want the people who prefer these, then remove them. i recall when i started in 2008, 25,000-30,000 online was common. i recommend eve to a friend because of this. the statistics i see do not show much improvement in 8 years. if ccp's marketing plan is player churning, fair enough. personal styles and abilities should be considered by any corporation if they desire to grow and increase revenue. i thought that increasing the appeal of a product was a desirable endeavor."
"pve, trading and industry are indeed an essential part of eve - but they absolutely require pvp to be worthwhile. gathering resources and making stuff would lose all meaning if this sandbox game did not have risk as well as feature permanent loss. no one would want your stuff and be willing to give you anything for it. you are asking to have your cake and eat it too. pve/industry requires pvp to give it meaning and items in this game value, and pvp needs pve/industry to make the weapons of war. you cannot isolate players from pvp like you want yet still let them benefit from the shared game economy. if you want that, you can already mine/mission/build to your heart's content in 100% safety on the test server. but you won't, because if you tried you would quickly come to the conclusion that these activities have little value in isolation from the greater game. eve is a single-universe, competitive sandbox game, almost unique in the gaming space. ccp has tried to juggle the eternal dilemma of safety vs. vulnerability and already highsec is extremely safe, essentially 100% safe if you spend little effort. no, not 100% safe, but this is by design and whatever risks that are left are easily managed. you have to accept those risks or play something else. ccp cannot provide the absolute safety you seem to demand and still stay true to the fundamental design of the game. the customers that you say want that just cannot be catered to with this product."
"unfortunately the way incarna was botched put a bad taste in people's mouths. i fully supported wis. i fully rejected incarna. the important thing here is that they don't shove down people's throats, which is exactly what they did in incarna. if done right it would be a welcome addition to new eden.the csm xi election are now open until march 25th, 2016. consider niko lorenzio for csm xi."
"376m/s"
"... no, i don't think so. what was your process?"
"i would totally vote for niko lorenzio, since this is a person so familiar with high sec challenges and interesting creations in eve as well as higher risk things out in null and low sec. (actually i already did vote)."
"besides afk needing more standing slots to keep up with the troublemakers of new eden, and it being pretty ridiculous with all the random changes that in 2016 eve standing slots are even an issue anymore, i cast my votes for vaari because he is a loyal alliance member, a persistent diplomat, a satirical mastermind, and i know he will press ccp until the needs of industrial pilots are heard in such a way that is impossible to be ignored.raelyafk alliance executor"
"+1^100 a vote for vaari is a vote that eve will prosper and shine above all other alternative realities."
"lord vaari has my vote and my heart!"
"+1 luxury items, just like extra-savory hot pockets, are important!"
"+1embrace the lux!"
"would you rather vote for donald trump or bernie sanders?+1 !!!!"
"what is it with all these tattooed studded bald people?+1 for vaari, +1 for us!"
"1. lab coats are must have for those spaceship captains who regularry do laboratory things. i dont know anything abou amine.2. i think people should be able to put their medals on every piece of cloth they want. of course in some case this might look stopid but that is their right.3. i think concord controlls too much of our hair. 4. all kind!"
"+3 to lord, vaarimay the force be with you"
"+1, i would like to see contracts that do not require updating every two weeks, a button you can check to relist until sold"
"hey miranda, cheers for stopping by. i saw a kill mail for that evening, looks like you could have used some help earlier.bob moves in mysterious ways."
"now i know why you have one! you are myopic.that does sum you up nicely."
"any questions for this serious csm post ?"
"the only reform required for the csm is to have candidates that aren't trolls or \"meta\" stars marveling at data about data. vote in candidates whose platforms are about providing feedback and being the sounding board we were always meant to be, and move away from the union thuggery mentality that has poisoned the csm in the past. the csm is a pretty simple concept, screwed up by those that have a status complex and want to see it as a chance to push singular agendas or make ccp beg them for approval to develop their own game.the csm is only as useful as the people on it."
"za menya toje progolosui pojalusto :)the csm xi election are now open until march 25th, 2016. consider niko lorenzio for csm xi."
"you can't make a full contact sport like say australian rules football playable by haemophiliacs with osteoporosis without alienating the people who play it because it's a full contact sport. how would you like it if i had a \"no market pvp flag\" on my character and any sell orders i purchased from were automatically modified to npc prices because paying player set prices \"isn't my style\"?"
"endorsed. as a businessman, i have never been disappointing by this candidate, fun gamer, gets my votes. \"schr<U+FFFD>dinger's missile. i dig it.\" ~ makari aeron"
"i can think of three areas to improve:first - nuetral declarations for either systems or corporations inside an alliance that has wd. a corp could be designated 'non-combatant' and thus be illegal to attack. enemy attacks on non-combatants would have the same criminal response by ccp as if they were not in wd. if any member of the corporation either a) attacks or b)enters the home system of an enemy corporation they would lose their 'non-combatant' status. second - pilot smuggling. while we may be able to clone jump - sometimes thats not the preferred method. i would like to call an 'uber' corporation and be smuggled out. no boats, just pod and if your taxi gets popped, both pilots have to be prepared to run.third - custom paint, not those stupid decals they want us to pay for."
"with all the changes and balances in eve online, i would like to see.#1 cloaking device need to use fuel !!!!"
"that is my most important goal. vote me."
"to be honest i don't know the exact formula for calculating those figures, but i am a follower of your blog as i am a mathematics undergraduate in real life and really enjoy reading your analysis."
"i only actually changed to this corporation to stop my main corporation from getting wardecced and harassed whilst i am running for the csm. as soon as the danger is over, this corporation will be dissolved, and i will go back to my main corporation again! (see blogs for details).one of the things that i do not like is the frivolous use of reporting to harass people by getting their corporation names or player names changed. up until now, my corporation name has not been changed."
"endorsed, you have my votes! \"schr<U+FFFD>dinger's missile. i dig it.\" ~ makari aeron"
"hello lord vaari. i wish you luck becoming csm. you have my vote. i would like to suggest fuel bays on any ship that can fit a cloak. it is a sad thing when a red can cloak in a system and shut down the operations of 10, 20, 30, 40 and sometimes more than 50 players in a system. sometimes they camp for days while they are not even around their computer to be active. some players can barely afford to run one account. in one way to increase producivity al across eve, cloak fuel conservation skills 1-5 could be added to the game. the idea is that any ship someone fits a cloak to will pop up a new slot for cloaking fuel. if the cloak is used, it will burn up fuel to the point that if all extra fuel stored in the cargo of the ship is depleted, the ship will uncloak without the ability to recloak. this should take a few hours to allow for people to move in to hostile areas with plenty enough allowable time to make attacks without hurring players out of hostile areas. we all know we dont want to be rushed to get our kills before running out of cloak fuel. so, the fuel would need to last maybe up to a 24 hour period. maybe even longer than that. we simply dont need players out there cloaking and camping sytems for days upon days wtih no regaurd to other players. on person should not have tha ability to shut down great numbers of players profits for so long at a time. after burning up any fuel stored in the cloak fuel bay, the player would need to refill the bayfrom any extra fuel stored in their cargo hold. refilling the cloak fuel bay should only take place when a ship is uncloaked. and refilling should only take as long as it take to move the fuel. i do truley believe this would keep more players more acitve all across eve. people would have to be more serious about their game if this were to happen. it also would be good to limit the amound of fuel that may be stored in cargo holds as due to the fact that some ships have much larger cargo holds than other ships. we would want to keep cloaking fair across all shiptypes. this is what i would love to see changed most about the game. i hope other agree and respond. dzazter thanks lord vaari for being around!!!"
"when you vote...vote saq...vote......harry saq"
"nice writeup. \"schr<U+FFFD>dinger's missile. i dig it.\" ~ makari aeron"
"nice way of looking @ wardecs. i think this could make eve a better place while not ruling out the harsh place that it is. \"schr<U+FFFD>dinger's missile. i dig it.\" ~ makari aeron"
"nice writeup. \"schr<U+FFFD>dinger's missile. i dig it.\" ~ makari aeron"
"nice writeup \"schr<U+FFFD>dinger's missile. i dig it.\" ~ makari aeron"
"xright you are one of the best pvpers and i have a bridge to sell in new york."
"good luck borat! still cool with your \"lone wolves\" message. unlike you i gave huge coalition a single voice, except pl.my csm vote slate:xavier azabu - it's me. good pvp record. pacific tzs.capri sun kraftfoods - impressed by interview. i like bl.steve ronuken - i use a lot of 3rd party tools. industry vote.vaari - this year's real xenuria - now that xenuria is hijacked. finnish.borat guereen - anti-establishment. pro solo/small-groups.vic jefferson - aside from gorski best pvper here.utari onzo - good voice for fw/roleplay/npsi. provi rep.joffy aulx-gao - liked his poster and attitude.fafer - representing geminate. pvp/tournaments. nc. rep for me.mr hyde113 - impressive stream. ex-bl. pl rep for me.rf gnaeus crassus - hauler. i use redfrog sometimes. chill. logistics are important.diana olympos - french. seems chill. pfr was a cool idea.gorski car - give him another year to do what he does. been in enough places that extra pl rep is ok.xenuria - will fix the issue with female avatars' feet. represents imperium."
"you are the actual anti-establishment vote this year. i voted xenuria in top slot every year prior hoping that the issue with female avatars' feet would be fixed. now i know that you will fix issues like that and more. i endorse you.plus neal breen jean jacket with medallions would be amazing."
"i voted for vaari because roleplaying is underrepresented in the csm council. i hope that will change. i would like to see more eft features built into the game so i don't need a separate program."
"getting a math degree is a great idea. i wish i had a first degree in math because there are many topics in my current work where i could benefit from a more sophisticated view of the tools.as for eve math, no worries. i'm just spreading the joy around. you are actually very familiar with the continuous equations for motion, being a first-order diff-eq. i'm going to try to post solutions for all of the questions before the 25th. good luck with the csm elections.regards, writings on some formal methods in eve-online: eve math & physics blog"
"congratulations. \"the end (happy one) \""
"i have no intention to join goonswarm simply put it takes a coalition to bring about change and i am open minded to everyone's ideas regardless of where they come from. this is how i made it onto the gsf ticket."
"1) paragraphs.2) presentation.3) \"reply\" button not the \"new topic\" one."
"please post your reply where you intended. thanks!closed."
"if you had left it at the quip about the smartie fit, you'd have fared better in my view. good luck with the csm elections. writings on some formal methods in eve-online: eve math & physics blog"
"if you enjoy eve, niko is the guy you need in csm. if you don't enjoy eve, niko is the guy you need in csm. i know he will do his hardest to keep the fun parts fun, the mundane parts less mundane, and listen and work with both sides of the coin. this is finally a csm candidate i personally am excited for."
"i am being told to vote for vaari, as opposed to be told why i should vote for vaari.csm is important, but no one tells me why csm is important for afk. i dont need any clothing, and no, skill respec is not heresy.alliances should be able to award medals to people outside of corp. i agree. first, you would need some personal thanks. i have fought for hours with little or no thanks. i strive, every day, to uphold our values, without the need to be reminded or thanked. i came down here to uphold an ideal, i end up in a cult of personality. if i speak in public about our ideals, i am told i am out of my place. even as a director in sov holding corp. all i get is a nastygram, by way of my ceo telling me i don't know my place. there is no cohesive identity that is afk, other than passive aggressive totalitarianism, and hangers on. give us a platform, make a statement as to why we need a csm. what are we after? not a democracy, that is for sure.in fact, i already know the outcome. there will be no discussion, no forwarding of a platform. just bruised egos pissing and moaning about that prick, zheng'yi sao. i am not a prick, i am passionate about what i do. i need some of that back. something constructive.why should i vote for vaari? what does afk stand to gain? what does afk want to gain?(sorry macon)"
"we gain prestige of course. having a seat in csm council generates us prestige and especially to me. that will help us in diplomatic negotiations."
"this is actually a mail i wrote in response to someone who asked me if it was \"on your agenda to limit (not abolish) the wardecs in high sec?\"---hi! thanks for being interested.if you look at my campaign thread from last year (i got lazy this year and did not post everything again) you will see that the \"broken\" war-dec mechanic (as well as the \"broken\" bounty mechanic) is something that should concern all high sec denizens.but please do not confuse the csm with anything that has any kind of \"power\". elected members do not have the ability to force ccp to change things... it works best (although not entirely accurate) to think of the csm as a kind of player-elected focus group... that are elected by players to give feedback to the devs... elected by their players to represent a point of view.coming back to wardecs... i do not myself have any great ideas about how the problems could be fixed, whilst still allowing there to be war (after all.. pewpew is at the core of the game). one of my ideas that might allow people not interested in war to still have some fun in the game was: 2015/08/player-corporations.html not a totally original idea, but i believe i also mentioned it in my campaign last year (and maybe even on the capstable interview last year... can't remember...) just to illustrate the point that it is something that i have been worrying about for a while.whoever you vote for, you should vote. you should get your friends and corpsmates to vote. your enemies and all the guys in local. if high sec does not sit up and try and do something, then ccp will only end up listening to the 14 people chosen by the nullsec power blocks. whoever high sec votes for, we as a collective also need to show the devs that we are interested in the route the game is taking.anything else i can help you with?"
"+1 good luck :)"
"when are these forums going away? should i have put this on reddit instead?i love exploring new eden. just running the sites is not enough. i take loads of videos and screenshots because this game is beautiful. so many in fact, i could make a really neat and elaborate guide. i imagined my own long term endgame being an accredited editor of . a neutral site that anyone in the player base can edit. i based lots of my own creative crap on what i read on . was the only place for lore, if i wanted history on the ni-kunni, relations between vherokior and thukker tribes, etc.i've only been here 11 months, so i lack an authority that someone who's been here since beta would have as far as experience. not to mention, i don't do this coding thing for a living. what would take someone in the field to do a simple 5 minute html edit would take me an hour. my contributions to were very small. i made some grammatical fixes and i made a page for my own characters backstory.. which honestly was just a sort of 'classroom' if you wanna call it that. using the different tools and templates to make a page from scratch. because as we all know, was brutally out of date.losing this lore fluff took lots of this game's romance out for me. not gonna quit over but there's no reason to remove it just like there was apparently no reason to keep it.whatever."
"i felt scion was a good csm who went into it with an open mind. he advocated on behalf of us paying customers and was ignored, publicly shamed, and barred from running again by an individual who no longer has her job interfacing with the csm. have fun with xenuria and aryth. please remember that you asked for this. i do have a question for xenuria: it's clear and obvious that current csm members are leaking nda material yet ccp does nothing about it. how do your csm reform proposals address this?"
"why do people always think the csm members are some super wizards who poop out perfect solutions, ccp would never have thought about. as a csm member you have the opportunity to let ccp know how players think about issues and where they should put their priorities. that's why you need to be open for discussions, active on social media, etc. and together you try to find the best solution by discussing the problems. for this you need a good eve background or else you're kid preaching to the teachers. and yes, i would also vote for xenuria.... well i did already"
"if you havent voted yet for the csm, you're doing it wrong in my opinion."
"the way some players outright reject avatar game play is hilarious. people are throwing money at star citizen with it's ship plus avatar gameplay, and it doesn't even run half as smoothly as the captains quarters.personally i think what little we have seen of the station environments in eve are far more interesting that the ones currently available in star citizen. in eve you can see the cultural influences of the four empires at work, there is a real story behind why the station interiors look the way the day. but in comparison the environments in star citizen are a bit generic despite their higher amount of detail."
"still waiting for that kickstarter to appear and for one single person to demonstrate that wis is worth $10 to them."
"xenuria, despite being a little odd, despite people ridiculing you, you still stand up to be in csm and the more i see of your posts, there seems to be a bit of sharp dry wit.keep on trucking."
"since i can't force ccp to reprimand people for leaking, i can only change systems in such a way that the leaker is more obvious. i'd have to see how they have all their stuff configured but it's easy enough to put something like that in place. i think re-tooling is part of reform just as much as drawing up new ways of doing things is."
"constant none-answers. meaningless, no content, just blatant attention seeking."
"xenuria,what if i gave you another clue to make it easier. you can assume that both targets are at the same distance. i have revised the wording of the question above. good luck.regards, writings on some formal methods in eve-online: eve math & physics blog"
"hello, it's me. im back.therein campaign fundemanetls and goals:as a campaigning participant therein/by in this election it will be my goal to bring the players a deeper sense of fulfullment in their everlasting jorney towards the lips of the mangus.wishy washy pishy poshy people in eve have been becominating far too stagnant and settled.and what about the space invaders? first cloaked spiders. and now all sorts of crazy entities have been just cruisning on into new eden. what the hell?i have one thing to say too all of the jove and their band of the horrific whatevers.you have gone knocking up the wrong bee.we will stand and fight to repel all forces and invaders from our systems, foreign or domestic.myself and camera-man will probe the economy with a mangus-rod of the likes has hither to been seen in this reality slice. all of reality is unsliced until it is sliced.we must find the slice points before they become sliced."
"mmos have lifespans. maybe eve has simply passed it's peak.it's certainly looking a lot more polished nowadays, but for me personally it's still pretty much the same game i quit playing over a year ago (i'm back for a month out of curiosity).plus there are a number of other space ship games out there that simply weren't around 5 years ago, so players have choices in what game they play. personally i prefer the hands on flying of elite dangerous, but at the moment it lacks the complexity and depth that eve offers, and all players on the one server provides a unique experience.i personally think ccp's current tactic is going to try and grow it's customer base through multiple products (valkyrie, dust/legion/whatever), rather than trying to attract more players to eve.i think this is a shame because i would like to see eve grow, the lore is interesting and universe unique, and there plenty of avenues for new and interesting game play (wis, colonizing planets, interacting/meddling with npc empires) but i don't think any of these will be explored because \"eve is just about spaceships herp derp\"."
"i heard that ccp is going to introduce a system similar to kill marks on ships where everytime you warp into a gatecamp a \"mark\" appears on your underwear."
"since niko has requested a question, i thought i would oblige him. here it is: regards, writings on some formal methods in eve-online: eve math & physics blog"
"so we have come back form our short vacation after the csm candidates interviews.we are busy transitioning the show into phase two but we wanted to publicly thank all the candidates who participated this year.in addition we wanted to thank all those individuals who participated in the scheduling, researching, interviewing and editing of the various interviews. you volunteering greatly improved the quality of this year's interviews and we look forward to working with you again.special thanks to ccp for aiding us in this years interview series.sincerely,lanctharus onzoexecutive editorcsm watch podcastexecutive editor, csm watch || writer, co-host of the cap stable podcast || twitter: @lanctharus"
"vote for my man!"
"thanks for a very interest question!first of all, assuming the said station is open to my docking request, i don't need the mouse. alt+space, arrow key, d (custom shorcuts) all executed with my free left hand and i'm safely in station.if that wasn't an option, it depends. whats the size, speed and mass of the hostile ship, am i in my invul timer and what direction am i facing? assuming its a smaller ship, i might turn it on to make my mass bigger and the bump less effective. i might also leave it off so it's easier to turn back around to face the station if turning it on will not be enough to avoid getting bumped out.the csm xi election are now open until march 25th, 2016. consider niko lorenzio for csm xi."
"niko,sometimes more information doesn't make things easier. except for being able to pilot back to docking range, which i expressly made impossible because of your burrito eating, none of the other distinctions matter. you can choose whichever arrangements for the other parameters that you'd like. regards, writings on some formal methods in eve-online: eve math & physics blog"
"yes, i would activate the afterburner then.the csm xi election are now open until march 25th, 2016. consider niko lorenzio for csm xi."
"i can't tell if this is meant to be a genuine candidacy post (i presume not) but you're at least a month too late to run for csm"
"another proof of my competence in csm is how heretics have reacted. they try to lure away my voters with this slandering joke image."
"my representative's suit is almost ready. here are pictures of on going efforts. you will see him at the great festifal, but also in csm meetings if you vote right."
"we stand with you vaari.could you in your endevors ask for a single ship reballancing effort.add ore compression ability to the orca to ballance with the rorqual ore compression ability.best idea i could come up with to add to your list."
"i think your going down the wrong track with buffs to concord as concord is part of the problem carebears face. look i can't drive down to london with a gun in my glove box. if the police stop me i will be arrested. if i am attacked at a service station or a layby i can't use the gun or display it to make my attackers back away or i will be arrested. i can't hire someone else to sit in my passenger seat with a gun to drive away any attackers either or they will be arrested. so i can't have a bodyguard. all i have is an assurance that if i'm attacked beaten raped and left for dead at the side of the road, the police will endeavour to bring my attacker to justice. this is the current concord mechanic.problem is highsec isn't england! its the wild west! we need the same self defense rules as in dallas not london. that means we should be able to fight back or flee effectively.i would suggest the following buffs to carebears: ecm doesn't provoke concord response. miners and haulers are free to blast away with it. either with the non targeted aoe or preemptively jamming potential hostiles who target them. apply this to all e war even. possible counters for the ganker include eccm and passive targeting modules so its not imbalanced. bumping allows the option for the bumped to open a limited engagement with the bumper and shoot it legally freighters get armed. seriously armed. like \"did that obliesk just launch 10 geckos?\" armed. smaller haulers get either more ehp fitting options or more speed options. by all means let people continue to haul antitanked, but if i want to fit for safety either with a \"your gonna need more then 5 people\" tank or a \"gj catching this\" tank this should be doable. its supposed to be a conflict driven sandbox right? so let us fight back and bring some risk back to ganking that isn't just i got my math on my calculator wrong.what are your thoughts?"
"thanks for stopping by!actually i did not think of what i was suggesting just as \"buffs\" to concord in order to address the problems we face. i was actually hoping generally to bring more common sense to the mechanic. at the moment it is more like if three policemen are there whilst you are getting beaten up by a gang... they will stop one of them and let the rest get on with it until help arrives! if ecm did not provoke concord response then griefers could fly around jamming miners to their hearts content. most gankers are already negative sec... and can be shot whenever. or ecmed... i just have to fit an ecm to my covetor, and notice them warping in... the expanded grids that we have give me more time to prepare to react.just have to fit sensor boosters to get my locking times up... i am sure that jita pirates sitting on the trade hub undock would like that... if a collision sparks an engagement timer.or how would one differentiate between accidental collision and deliberate bumping? i love trucking, and we just got a hull buff and the dc change (which is better than a buff to auto-piloters). i think it would be a shame to fit freighters with weapons... it would destroy my \"space truckers\" feel... but then it also took me a long time to get used to having slots at all... and actually i find the fitting options for smaller freighters also ok. it is already possible to fit some of the transports so the gate-watching-thrasher can't alpha you whilst auto-piloting. this game is a conflict driven sandbox, as you say. i am not asking for a \"safe\" button. things like my proposed concord changes would also bring a bit of randomness into ganking (maybe the police are at the donut shop), the self destruct device will let us rob potential gankers of all loot/gains... if we are prepared to press the button... stuff like that.those are my thoughts at the moment...ps it is hard taking \"buffs for carebears\" ideas seriously from someone with \"\" as a signature..."
"good points especially about the bumping. i'll have to think more about it."
"i'd really like to see some quality of life buffs to low sec, to make it a more attractive place to go live, hunt and play. i can go roam a dozen low sec systems and find nobody in any belts or celestials. so i come back to highsec and go blow up a retriever. i totally agree about the bored pilots bit. i have a solution for bumping as well: make it activate a limited engagment between the pilots aka like a duel if the bumped pilot accepts. now arm freighters. honestly in such a harsh \"dangerous\" universe why would ship manufacters keep churning out unarmed ships? lets make all ships capable of fight or flight. and allow the pilot to choose which he will fit. bump that obliesk..will it microjumpdrive out or release 10 geckos or is the pilot afk? decisions decisions...edit: while reading through some worthy candidates i had a chance to clarify my thoughts about high sec thus:"
"following the goblin on this one. csm needs to be more then a feel good pr tool to be worth the /effort to vote.while reading through some worthy candidates i had a chance to clarify my thoughts about high sec thus:"
"bump"
"sorry but ganking and uninvited pvp has been the core of this game for many years and has been a big part of its attraction, not the problem.if you ask me, it's not any single change but the myriad of inconsistent changes that annoy the existing and dedicated players to no end. large part of eves success depends on existing players creating the narratives, the projects and conflicts that drive new eden. sometimes it takes years of blood sweat and tears to accomplish the majestic goals and endeavors players set out on. they recruit and include others in their communities which strengthens the loyalty of the players. lacking the inspiration and motivation to get emotionally invested in such endeavors is what's causing its current decline.if our efforts are constantly threatened by ccp development decisions, if we spend too much of our energy fighting ccp on the forums instead of each other in space, if we don't feel secure and confident enough about the games future, then the game stagnates.the csm xi election are now open until march 25th, 2016. consider niko lorenzio for csm xi."
"both are pretty slow and easy for a web + target painter + tracking enhanced huginn to hit."
"i endorse ecm not provoking concord. do you have any idea how i would abuse utilize this in wars. or gankers in preemptively jamming jammers and logi. this would be amazing to kill assist incursion runners"
"you might consider reading the sticky thread about this in the c&p forums..."
"sorry i actually didn't realise this was a csm thread. some ass hat linked that post in like 4 different spots"
"why are you asking whether the forums are going away?also, i don't see a csm response here. do csm folks often come to these threads? (it'd be helpful to have a csm tag when one responds.)if lore is now being dumped, much of the world-building is also gone. but whether it's the wiki or the watch-list, i don't know that any of the csm candidates have spoken much, and even if they do, will ccp care at all?"
"already did.i noticed even in the last csm minutes there is still no mention of the things ccp promised faction war players back in 2013 like timer rollbacks and better intel tools. these were things with lots of player support. now they switched out the teams that work on faction war and no one on the csm even mentions these items. it's like a brand new day. then people wonder why players couldn't care less about the csm. i hope joffy can change this. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"thank you for answering. i'm posting all my solutions sometime this weekend. best of luck with the csm elections!regards, writings on some formal methods in eve-online: eve math & physics blog"
"i sure agree on the language channels and the skill faucets. not happy about those changes one little bit."
"i am serious.in terms of being 3 months late the numbering on the title is what i would like to call dynamic. whenever the next one is this will still be my champagne and i'd probrably even edit the right number in when we get there. how far in the future do you usually think?"
"just keep reminding us that you exist... and do substantial things that leave good impressions (sitting on top of ccp's headquarters while drinking 'special quafe' and singing in irish for 3 days... might be impressive, but might not be good.)"
"have you ever flown a super? your prior comments seem to indicate otherwise. -1"
"figured these forums aren't the best place anymore since there's better third party sites out there. could just them.. was being snarky"
"such a tag already exists. members of the csm do check these forums, but ccp's response on the thing has been pretty final. as well, one of the current csms already has the dump hosted on his own website.by your own admittance, you're not much of a programming wizard. take some time to go around looking at how websites actually run in the background and the complexity of managing multiple sites, then come back and complain about not nuking something that costs a decent amount of time to maintain with minimal/negligible use.i'll go ahead and throw this out there: i've been playing this game since long before was introduced, and i used it very, very rarely. a bunch of better, more informative, free, open-access sites about eve lore and anomaly information are available with a simple google search. if ccp is focusing their efforts on a better, easier to maintain lore-focused site instead of maintaining an incredibly out-dated, rarely used, and poorly updated wiki, i don't see a problem with that at all."
"\"if ccp is focusing their efforts on a better, easier to maintain lore-focused site instead of maintaining an incredibly out-dated, rarely used, and poorly updated wiki,\"lykouleon, are they actually doing this? i figured they were dropping lore to 3rd parties altogether and washing their hands of players who enjoy world-building."
"\"such a tag already exists.\" the csm members do have a tag, but visible only once you're in the thread, unlike the ccp tag which is visible in the forum listing. i should have been more specific."
"xenuria, i wasn't able to find a csm11 interview you have done, only older irrelevant ones from previous csm campaigns. did you do a csm11 interview somewhere and i just didn't find it? i did find your youtube channel, though. cool that you fight for vanu!"
"op, you're talk of cloaked spiders has planted this great song in my head: david bowie & the spiders from mars : ziggy stardust live so thank you!"
"suicide ganking helps the economy as it adds demand and drives up commodity prices."
"directly quoted from the official ccp statement about the matter:\"the also contains a significant amount of prime fiction and official backstory reference material that has been worked on by both ccp, and our fantastic isd mercury division. this will be relocated to a new home over the course of the next couple of months so that all players have read access to it, and isd mercury can continue to contribute to developing prime fiction and backstory for the eve universe. \" source:"
"it would have been neat if they cancelled the day the new lore thing came out then. tbh i'm over it.. already working on uniwiki...."
"that's somewhat better then. thanks for that heads-up!"
"so how is it going xavier azabu? are we winning?"
"definitely have my support."
"eve has probably lost me and my other account as i have noticed a huge number of players steeling loot from all my hard work i know it is the game but i don't want to spend 15 to 20 min it's killing stuff for someone to be able to warp in kill the loot dropper and get the loot i feel i am wasting my time i could spend all my time mining but how boring that's the reason for me my son started playing and just in his trial he was ganged twice and had his ore stolen and getting completely ripped of endlessly he said he wasn't good enuff for the game so did not sub"
"because the citadel expansion will soon appear, i would like to move up with a well-known subject to the csm.the citadels will have within the management of an alliance certainly advantages.the teamwork within the alliance is thereby strengthened.indeed, the even other easy things which can have a huge positive effect for alliances are absent: alliance-bookmarks.therefore i ask the csm appeal for implementation of alliance bookmarks along with the citadel expansion."
"i did text interviews with eve nt and i did the vote match thing. if you are looking for video i was on the most recent meta shoe."
"** reserved +1"
"remember to vote me!"
"*sign*"
"commander aze isnt naturally part of a voting bloc... he is part of the leadership for an upstart high sec alliance. im somewhat biased but i think he is a great high sec candidate.its nice seeing established players take an interest in us new folk"
"of course they do, they do need more minions. all established powers are actively attracting newbros nowadays, after they took care of eliminating brave, which was a natural funnel for newbros before. as a new player you should consider joining newbro friendly groups with no taxes, or if taxes are levvied for the allmighty srp programs, then these can give junior accountant role to all their line members, so that anyone can see how the corp funds are really used. make your choices with your eyes fully open."
"i have been able to drop a super exactly once in my career (thanks arche). i am in the process of training up a super alt, just because it's something that i'll look to do in the future, but no i have no experience flying supercarriers or titans."
"i'd totally vote for you if not for a candidate aptly named #boycottcsmmike is a vegetable, would love a real hisec candidate to show up when the current csm system is abolished."
"no to everything.1) ecm griefing and ewar griefing will be a new thing. we have enough grief decs and grief ganks to go around. even with stupid amount of eccm (and consequently no tank, thus asking special olympics ganking team to come by), with enough ecm applied, it'll eventually work. and for ewar that will definitely work, just imagine a sig tanking tengu webbed/painted in a mission from a safe distance? no, just no.2) put your fat ship on jita undock, wait for the freighter, buuuuump, freighter rekt. really? that said, would support it if the accidental bumping is circumvented somehow. there should be a countermeasure to not being able to move for hours until bumping nerd had his griefgasm and quit.3) within current mechanics, armament cannot prevent even the free gank, not to mention actual gank or alpha gank. 10 geckos on a freighter would make it a popular ratting choice though.4) not sure what you mean about smaller haulers and don't see a problem with current haulers either. you can fit a dst for \"more than 5 people\" and you can fit a blockade runner for \"gj catching this\" (hisec-wise of course). do you even haul?all ganking needs is a bit of skill component as opposed to enough bots with catalysts: reduce concord reaction time to multiple offenders on the same grid. now you can't spam catalysts, actually need both character weapons skills for bigger guns, and some math to calculate required people count and ship type to gank the target. the beauty of it is that it does nothing to alpha ganks, and ganking anti-tanked people is still easy, but gives something new - a set of viable gank-safety fits which would require a bunch of really skilled and implanted gankers in taloses to bring down. currently such fits are a joke since they can be simply overwhelmed by enough catalysts at almost not cost."
"so why are you posting in my thread then?and that at the end of the elections.did you get hyperdunked or something? i cannot otherwise imagine why you try to knock mike?as you say... the current csm system is quite....... borked. but it is all we have to work with.vote your conscience... just vote. and remember.... you get what you vote for."
"if only there was a button to report posts for deletion....this is my csm campaign thread... and i have already responded to this post. other responses... no matter how (deleted to remain polite)... or what.... are not welcome! especially since this person linked this post to multiple other threads! why not respond there?however you want to vote... vote. if you want to boycott... post on gevlon's blog. leave my thread alone!"
"1.0"
"lal, tora pussydo trying again?well, gonna laugh when he fails =)you couldn't do it when marmites were at least mentioned sometimes, no way you're gonna do it now that everyone forgot who the heck marmites are."
"i can't say whether tora will make it this year, although i can say betting against someone so close last year when practically no incumbents are running is a bit too risky for my taste. regardless, quoting for posterity."
"ok, i have took time to read through your bs on war dec system, and ready to criticize it to a piece of turd it is.1) concerning player age - i see a new commodity on the market - a super-costly-to-wardec-corp with a lot of unsubbed newbros stacked in it, for veteran players, by veteran players. calculating cost by age is therefore non-viable.your reminder is also a very good place when ccp goes and tells it's not a problem despite half the present people rising hands when asked if that is a problem, which shows the attitude of ccp towards that problem, and doesn't show anything else.i mean, if even someone like you can tell it's a problem...p.s. stating you don't make money on wardecs is the new height of hypocrisy. should i pass over to zkillboard and calculate your monthly module and cargo drops from war targets?! what a fat liar!2) folding - attackers also need to do nothing to make defenders start seeking cover and take losses. so you cant have one without the other. restricting all forms of quitting the stupid war will only make the market for injectors for people grinding up \"wardec stupidity avoidance alts\". if you remove options other than staying docked for a week, people will either stay docked for a week or quit. and if war lasts longer, with a joke of a cost it has now? is that what you want, everyone quitting? who are you going to grief then? that's stupid.3) as you can't even mine without structures (mining needs compression, compression needs structure), no-structure corp seems a bit too limited. that said, should citadels provide such functionality, as they seem from the info, it can be fixed with one-man-anti-wardec-stupidity-structure-corp citadel as it is now with one-man-anti-wardec-stupidity-structure-corp pos installation.4) paying defenders for kills in hisec is just ridiculous, as the current grief deccer, spearheaded by marmites, just docks up and cries at the very prospect of losing a single frigate to defenders. it's already a huge punishing cost for a defender to buy and train a useless pvp ship, only to be blueballed by some chicken marmite in it.i mean, it did took me 30 minutes afk on jita undock in a merlin to get 3 marmites (who docked up once i arrived) to undock and blap my ship, imagine if i come in a bc? they'll wait till there's at least 15 of them for that. within current mechanics, grief deccer can fix it so that defender will never get a kill no matter how hard he tries, spends, etc.5) allies are useless. you grief deccers bring that allies point every time because of your chicken nature, but the best thing allies can do is to camp your barge 23/7 and still have it killed in process while they take the rest of griefers on. they are costly and they do nothing but scaring your pants full. just forget about them already, no matter how much you bring, you're still not getting any attacker kills, as you'll just hole up like chickens you are and ignore them.6) claiming you are contracted to \"kill the competition\" is ridiculous as well, since everybody smarter than average grief deccer hauls with npc alt. war dec me a pator tech school, tora!7) merc board is a good start, but lacks one crucial piece of functionality. currently allies are useless because grief deccer can hole up and don't fight them, while the original defender still has to undock and be vulnerable to carry on its activities. if only we had a way to transfer war decs to mercs entirely, which would not be abusable by gewnies... because in current mechanics, mercs as a grief dec counter are useless.8) \"nerf hisec\" tears are so 2012... and you still cry them, omg! to sum it up, hisec has already been nerfed all over and there is simply nothing left to further nerf.9) black pedro part - sorry, i skipped it completely, the lack of consciousness he displayed in complete misunderstanding of a problem and providing solutions that make the problem much worse was too much to bear.overall:your proposal is bs, because it is:1) abusable (karmafleet age will rack your cost to dec gewns to the level of \"permanent excuse to never dec my gewn masters\").2) based on wrong assumption (like that allies matter; or that defender kills are possible; or that an actual hisec corp which is not some npsi nonsense can do something without structures in the past-hisec-nerf world; or that people care about your stupid wars; or that you don't make huge profit from war decs; or that folding a corp not specifically designed and restricted to be foldable doesn't cost more than grief dec).3) heavily favors grief deccer side.4) promotes not undocking for weeks and quittting eve.5) no, we don't need t2 fedos. or even t1 fedos.get rekt son."
"well, hisec is already bleeding subscriptions badly for years.at the same time, despite all the moaning, nullsec ratting graph keeps rising.if another \"nerf hisec\" candidate teams up with mike vegetablearia and the rest of the cfcsm pushing for it, it'll be the end of eve.now for tora:you and your lap dog pedro critically misunderstand the incentives issue. the only incentive the target of a grief dec you throw around has is \"end this stupidity with minimal effort and back to whatever i was doing\". like said before, to fulfill this incentive, allies are useless, ransoms are somewhat useful, but as most post-hisec-nerf hisec corps can't even pay the grief dec bill and you're obviously gonna ransom them for more, i won't over-estimate their usefulness from something over a niche one. no war dec fix proposal would be complete without a way for defender to end the war with their actions and with as much consent as you displayed throwing that grief dec.there are many proposals that included those ways, like ending/punishing wars with no kills, allowing the defender to \"out-carebear\" the war, introducing structures/mechanics defender and allies can aggressively pursue in order to conclude this war stupidity, etc. without that, the grief deccer has all the control over the grief dec and has to do nothing to incure huge losses in isk and playtime on the defender, enjoying complete and un-eve form of safety. nobody should be that safe in eve, ever.make a good use of that in your next proposal, i'll be here to read and blow it apart."
"mike azariah isn't even running again. how will tora team up with him and ruin eve?"
"alliance-teamwork is essential for big citadels. therefore, alliance-bookmarks would be really nice."
"great idea"
"steve is doing god's work for the community. vote for steve."
"vote judge for csm xi."
"thank you all for voting for me."
"it's sad, but by following a few simple rules (not being afk, not using direct warps between gates, using comms) brings you to find that nullsec is far more pacified than high-sec ;)"
"of course, and why would that be?"
"something like that probably won't happen until the archaic corp/pos code is finally gutted."
"reddit and other third party sites (as helpful as eve uni's wiki may be) are, in a way, a signal of ccp's disconnect from it's own forums and products (read: ). it absolutely sickens me that ccp prefers to give priority to reddit when posting game information, as opposed to it's own forums.if someone 'accidentally' pulls the plug on reddit and forces ccp to come back to their own damn forum to relay information to the playerbase, i wouldn't shed any particular tears..."
"i've always tossed you a few votes because, who doesn't love the village idiot?this year will be no different.mr epeen"
"noobman is a god"
"this would end up lowering all of the cost of what will be farmed by those in those areas.so think carefully about your shadow serpentis gun you may sell for lots of money later being a lot lower....its the cry of everything that gets farmedpi started out high as we needed to make the market, people trained many many many alts to run pi and prices dropped and now all people do is whine, even mission runners whine when they dropped all of the lp on stuff and prices fell."
"i can see more obscene corp names and tickers coming with this."
"yeah, no. this actually came up when they did the trial character name purge a while back. i asked about the corps and alliances long since dead and was told that said names were now a part of the history and not up for recycling. if it was paid for then it stays, basically.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"there are sov wars, pos timers, station timers, system timers, these involve big fleets and big operations. many people enjoy smaller fleets, with no tidi and more personal involvement. there are entosis links - that should be the reason for these smaller fleets to happen, but there are problems with these (see below). i propose a new solution to allow small gangs to be involved in harrassing the enemy space, and this to be the reason for their existance. to allow for skirmish warfare - something like what the native americans did: small bands created on the spot, going into enemy territory - for reasons. these small gangs would be damaging enough to make the enemy come out, but not really threatening to sov.entosis problems:- nobody wants to be the entosis ship. does not get to shoot anyone, and is the first to die and miss the fun. getting to shoot things is very important in eve fleets. shooting at a structure waiting for an enemy response is more fun than guarding the entosis ship, waiting for enemy response.- entosis operations, even done in small gangs are directly threatening to sov. this should not be. the defender has to run around chasing small entosis fleets, with his bigger fleet (sov threat is serious threat, the response is always big). the attackers end up trolling, the defender ends up bored running around. no fun. sov should be harder to attack. get rid of entosis.small fleets should have a reason to form - besides catching people on gates, or trying to catch them ratting. what if a small gang would be able to reduce the sov indices? by ratting/mining/ hacking (exploration sites) in the enemy system. requirements: be in an alliance. this would not affect the sov, but could bring a response out from the enemy. anomalies would not be involved in this process, else people will end up forming giant fleets to farm them, to quickly reduce sov indices. only asteroid belt rats and sites that are scanned down would be involved. so a small gang in an enemy system would be slowly but surely be able to reduce these indices.then - if the enemy does not come out, with the sov indices at the minimum level, it should take ~ 20 minutes for a 50 man t1 cruiser fleet to put a tcu or ihub into reinforced. 30 minutes for a station. these timers will eventually be balanced. after that - command nodes spawn, that game mechanic is ok, entosis is not ok. with this, small roaming gangs would feel like they are doing something when going into enemy territory, and the enemy will come out - or soon his indices will be at minimum. again - no entosis required, the same effect is obtained - players without big guns can get into sov warfare if the defenders don't bother showing up.there will be the time zone problem - so alliances could have vulnerability windows during which their sov indices are lowered when enemies rat in their systems.also, see what i have written here about planets and sov. a raiding system for planets could be implemented. roaming gangs of barbarians looting and pillaging. imagine this: a small gang attacks a planet (a structure near the planet - the gate to the planet maybe). this structure has a vulnerability window and a reinforcement timer. if it falls after reinforcement, the attackers are able to loot everything on the planet, and this would also lower the sov indices. the loses would not be so great as to make the owners bring a capital fleet there, but would be enough of an annoyance for local pilots to make them bring out their own small gang. this could be implemented even in low-sec.then - once the planet is looted (of ships and materials in building there), there would be a third reinforcement timer. if the defender misses even this one - the barbarians would be able to loot the local population of the planet, and bring them to their home systems (the population of a planet would have skill indices - how skilled they are in building certain ship types, if they can build t2 or t3 they would be even more valuable - so looting a planet with highly skilled pop would be a good reason to roam). players would be making isk by attacking the enemy directly. players would be able to scan planets the same as moons, but this new type of pi would be done by individual players, planets would not be managed at alliance level. so if a planet is attacked it would not be like a pos on a moon is attacked, and would not always bring out an entire alliance fleet from the defenders."
"other stuff like this could be added. stuff that does not touches sov directly, but it rewards the invaders with isk, or helps them lower the indices. bounties for ratting in anothers alliance space could be increased 10 times for example. also rewards for defenders for showing up to planet timers or fights that do not directly affect sov. to prevent abuse - the defender of a planet would only get a bonus to his production if the planet was already looted (after losing the first reinforcement but winning the second). these things can be tweaked later.the defender should also be helped - even if he does not usually rat in that system, the sov indices should slowly grow back to a certain value (not the maximum possible) - in time. ratting should not be directly tied to sov warfare, it would be like something additional - good for indices, but not vital for defence. maybe players like to get isk by market trading. holding sov, the purpose of holding sov should be as i wrote here - controlling planets, and using planets for producing stuff at greatly reduced cost. invaders can pillage planets, but only sov owners can use them for production. space ownership should be it's own reward much more than now, not a stepping stone to \"safer rating\". isn't that what null sec means? no empire control? the population there should be at the mercy of the local warlord. if there is no population (they fled somehow to the empire), there would be a mechanism to bring in population on the planets, to put them to work, stealing them from other null-sec planets, or directly from the empire. but that would be another topic."
"just because you have an inability to understand the difference between ~shiny killmails~ and being the guy who actually gets the objective done doesn't mean you can apply the same to every other person."
"quick background: taking a class in college / uni about the legal history of disability in the u.s. (since i live here, so..) its past mid-terms so we are getting past the ada and are at the point were internet spaceships are becoming a \"thing.\" there seems to be a lot of technology involved in enabled people to do things they originally couldn't on the intarwebs. please note before i continue, this is more of a thread to get some feedback from the csm and possibly ask for some features down the road. i may not have 20/20 vision, but...so this has 2 main questions: game:how hard would it be to implement \"screen reader\" tech into the game? possibly with aura-like voice over? i know gps of yore used sampling much like the original aura to generate somewhat natural sounding syllables.how much of the game can be played (within reason) with just the keyboard? (ballpark percentage?)site:are the web pages of eve online up to snuff with w3c's guidelines?"
"just few days left to vote for joffy, who represents true lowsec interests, not being associated with any large alliance/blob!"
"as a reminder. we are about to start the final 24 hours to vote for csm xi. be sure to get your vote in before time expires."
"is a vote for xenuria still a vote for highly textured shoes? because this is what people really care about."
"fight for the future. fight for our nations!"
"don't tempt. someone might.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i'd like to thank everybody for the support :) now we just wait on the results."
"then you everyone for your support and effort you guys put into promoting me and csm in general.the csm xi election are now open until march 25th, 2016. consider niko lorenzio for csm xi."
"1.0"
"vote wyld!"
"with npc skins available i believe that the alliances should have the ability to introduce their own skins, ships and uniforms into the environment for other capsuleers to use.alliance skinsskins would be developed by alliances and then voted on by the alliance for the top five skins submitted to ccp. once submitted and a fee paid to ccp the ship skin would be introduced into new eden through either the clothing store, or unique item drop from a combat site in alliance space that would have alliance npc's populating the combat site instead of the regular npc factions.alliance shipsalliance ships would be introduced into new eden the same manner that alliance skins are introduced. the ships would be designed by alliance members of one ship per six months with a fee paid to ccp to incorporate the ship into the mainframe.alliance ships would be considered tier four ships and would be built around a specific alliance trait such as long range railguns + bonuses to a certain type of long range charges + bonuses to a certain resistance attribute such as 2% bonus to all thermal resistances for shields, armor and hull. allaince bpo's would be purchased from ccp by the alliances in bulk prices meaning that the alliance could chip in a percentage of isk from taxes to go towards the purchase of ship bpo's or ship tokens that would then be used to purchase the bpo's in bulk. alliance ship tokens would randomly spawn all over new eden from special event sites. capsuleers could then take the ship tokens to the respective alliance to trade or sell.alliance combat sitesalliance combat sites would be sites where normal new eden ships are used but are part of the local alliance'd control over the system. attacking and defeating an alliance combat site would reduce increase the vulnerability of the system controlled by the alliance. alliance ships or alliance faction ships would also be possibly present in the alliance combat site as well which could drop an alliance faction based module or alliance ship bpo. anyone could attack an alliance combat site causing an increased state of vulnerability to the control of the system. alliances could define capsuleer standings better this way by assigning loyalty standing points to those who defend against an attack as well as punishing someone for attacking their alliance combat site. when an alliance combat site spawns it will be on a timer of one hour. during that one hour reports to the administration hub would detail who attacked the alliance site and who defended against the attack. attacks would be registered simply by a report being sent to the ah that capsuleer x shot at alliance x frigate, cruiser, etc. defending a site would involve the capsuleer remaining inside of the combat site for at least five minutes without registering a shot at an alliance ship. an attacker destroying any alliance ship in a combat site would receive tags to then turn into an enemy alliance office for a reward along with alliance ship tokens that could then be used to sell back to the alliance for isk or used to trade with.a capsuleer defending the alliance combat site would report to the admin hub for their reward which would be based on how the alliance wants to reward the capsuleer.alliance combat sites would spawn randomly and any number of sites up to a total of ten sites in one system."
"this has nothing to do with how the csm represent the player base.thread closed."
"good luck toxic.the failure of the current csm to point out the obvious issues removal of the watchlist would have on diverse play styles, including highsec content creators, underscores the importance of having balanced representation on the csm. after considering all the candidates, i find you the most capable to represent those working hard to keep highsec an interesting place. i have voted accordingly. have patience, fanfest will be here before you know it!"
"gotta love op letting us know who his alts are."
"so voting is over!i would like to thank everyone who voted, and especially everyone who included me on their votes! let's see if we can do better than last year!i would rather not carry on debating in this thread... last year there was also some talking after the deadline. if anyone wants to get in touch before the results are announced, feel free to evemail or stop by my blog!"
"agreed with last post !vote for steve ronuken - top of ballot plse :))"
"i'd like to thank everyone for their support during the election, including all those who approached me with ideas for the betterment of eve. i'd like to extend that thanks to the current csm for the blood, sweat and tears they have put in over the last 12 months and to ccp for coming up with a mad concept like the csm in the first place. only in iceland ...however, the voting is over and the real work begins. whoever becomes the next csm are only as strong as the backing they get from the community. get involved. send mails, haunt the chat rooms, start the conversation, only with that can they say, \"hear, this is what the community is saying.\". don't think that if your preferred candidate didn't get in you have no voice. i've spoken to loads of csm members over the years, all of them are committed or at least should be, but they have your back. talk to them.fly well."
"i'd be delighted if they did. i'd kick in a tenner myself if the project looked like it might have a realistic development goal and business plan. wis still has the potential to be a fine addition to eve. it would add something that a 13 year old game will always be in desperate need of: new things to do.i've never been against the idea of avatars and avatar game-play in eve. i'm only annoyed by people being too childish to accept the obvious and repeated stated reality that it won't happen from within ccp."
"not to stick the finger in the wounds, again and again, would lead to the impression, that we agree with ccps way of acting in this matter.the last information i have (september 2015) is that wis won't happen soon. reasons the devs would/could not tell. - a statement that is worth nothing, because you can interpret everything in it.it's strange how easy ccp can answer why we won't get pink skins for our spaceships for example, because they don't fit into the eve universe. but with questions regarding wis they fall into a kind of hibernation, don't ever say or response to those three magic words!even with kickstarter, it needs the cooperation of ccp which i still miss. a start would be an option for exporting the avatars, captain quartiers etc. so you can use them in other programs. but that's property of ccp and i doubt they would give that out of their hands.that means for wis that ccp itself is actually its greatest enemy and leads to my first sentence.ccp, take the head out of the sand. are solid objects floating in space the only thing you can accomplish? show us that you can do more than that!"
"come take a vote on the wyld side.vote ."
"thread locked via polite request by op."
"yeah got to love the modelling agency idea of \"plus\" sizealso i say we go commando, no censorship....a lot more people would be playing female characters lolon a sadder note tracers victory pose is being removed by blizzard because of complaints by players saying it \"over sexualizes\" the character....in a game about killing people and the character wears a skin tight jump suit.......i hate this sensitive century."
"i am dropping out of the running to become a member of csm11. over the past month i have been hit with a severely debilitating illness, and due to its impact on to my health and thus my undergraduate degree programme, the next six months for me are not what i expected. i have been in contact with the always lovely /u/ccp_logibro who has pulled me out of the running.i want to apologise to anyone who may have voted for me who thus loses a spot on their ballot for someone else. if i knew that this was going to happen i would have dropped out before voting began, but sadly the long term effects to teh coming year have only become apparent over the last weekend.finally, i would like to thank everyone for all the support, advice and kind words during my campaign. initially i was unsure as to whether i would be a candidate people would have any interest in, but the response i got when i starting seriously consdering it and discussing it with others was overwhelmingly positing, so thank you all for that.apoth <3isds, please lock this thread."
"i feel like i have personally failed n making the clear distinction between what would be nice and what ccp are in fact going to do, regardless of your feelings on the matter."
"1.0"
"a wonderful story sure to delight and warm the hearts of the htfu crowd."
"i approve of this message.htfu"
"failed sounds too harsh. wis is like world peace. sure it would be nice but will we ever have it? does that mean we should stop fighting for it?this thread is a testimony of how much ccp cares about avatar gameplay and definitely underlines your position.but contrary to some opinions, nothing is chiseled in stone. do i believe that my or the other posts change anything about the current situation? not really. but i still prefer to take the chance, how small it might be, to do my part for the implementation of a feature that many player would like to have."
"get well soon, i hope you'll be able to try again next year"
"locking per request."
