i wonder if any ccp dev's ever look in this sub-forum. sure would like to get their opinion on this proposal.dmc
"a couple of points:first it was not mission critical. the client is in no way impaired by the removal of the igb. i will, however, accept widely used as a true premise.second, ""major game change"" is totally subjective. from my perspective it was hardly a blip on the radar. i alt tab a little more, but aside from that, nothing really changed for me.lastly, your request does nothing to motivate ccp to actually accede to it. the igb was removed because it was an inherent security risk, and ccp didn't have the resources to maintain it in the manner required to mitigate that risk appropriately. if you want them to bring it back, you should be offering them a business reason to do so, not a, frankly, whine about how you're unhappy it's not here anymore. i am sure that if you can offer them a compelling business case that shows a definite return on the investment in terms of man hours putting it back in and maintaining it properly they will be happy to at least consider your request.eve is like an addiction; you can't quit it until it quits you. also, iderno"
i believe they rendered undock bookmarks practically useless when they allowed you to see everyone with in 8000km if not further. also i believe they fixed the whole stasis web exploit a while back. lots of systems with no neutrals and hostiles around but then again proper triggers and watching of jump lanes would render that strategy useless. combat support don't think i've ever jumped a freighter with out it, not that it does much good when the attackers are prepared.hey, conflict is good for the economy right. seems to be working great with the mass war dec spamming taking place on the high sec trade lanes. lets do it!
+1 for option 2also +1 to dmc for perseverance.
hi jaxon grylls,thank you very much for the kind words and most importantly for giving your support to this proposal. ccp could easily implement option #2.thanks again.dmc







"i know csm folks are doing a lot of work. as for me, i dont feel the results of this work though - it doesnt improve my experience in communication with ccp. alright, no big deal, must be my personal issue. that's what i though until i stumbled on this: csm xi - weeks 25 & 26 summary - eve vegas editionthis is the review on a couple of pretty eventful weeks, written by two of the most active csm members in collaboration, placed on a site that is considered a pinnacle of communication. and it has a total of 8 (eight) comments, of which only 4 are legit posts from the general player base, with the rest being: 2 answers from cms members, 1 ****post, and 1 answer from a csm member to a ****post.i dont know what's going on, but in my terms this situation can not be described as ""normal"".csm, blink twice if you need help."
well, i'm a bit ill. vegas has done my lungs in. (yay, concrud. not as powerful as concord, but still bad)there is
"get well, steve.there are a lot of strange links all over the place, for example this is the csm ""news"" site:"
welcome to eve.that said, we have a boiler plate response here on the forums to posts like yours:can i have your stuff when you quit?
keep up the outreach if no one else is prepping you should win

the does not look in game like it was advertisedafter i bought the eve collector's edition source:




i will be :) thanks for the support!



"if as you say ""this is already in the game"", why not implement it in an intuitive and coherent way? it's actually better to be killed or suicide than jumping from a prepared clone bay in a controlled manner? sorry, but that doesn't make sense."
"with the new ascension expansion, aura's voice is changed. i, and any others who agree with this post, would like the ""warp drive active"" and ""docking permission requested"" voice to be reverted to what it was pre- ascension. the new voice sounds odd and does not have the computerized tone of the old voice. old voice:"
for those interested:
"simple proposal, renamable launchpads for pi. keeping track of which ""qp-b4d"" is for your robotics production is a hassle, much better to just be able to rename it ""robotics"".this doesn't change any actual gameplay, so there's no balance issues it just makes life easier and therefor the game a little bit better."
without trying to sound too harsh, i just don't see the old aura coming back in any capacity. it doesn't make any sense to have two different aura's. at the end of the day people hate change, but will also adapt and move on.
couldn't even remember who was permanents :( i thought you loved me
hi,i agree that people can and probably will adapt but aura is like darth vader in star wars, marvin in the hitchhiker<U+FFFD>s guide to the galaxy etc..... you can't just change that. obviously i have no clue about the technical implications here but generally i can not see why a npe can not introduce a new 'aura type' entity like a tutor, a new player/customer would not even know about aura and her history in eve and perfectly accept a tutor with a different voice. a new player has no emotional attachment to our original aura. so use a distinctly different voice for the tutor entity and leave aura as she was before the patch/update/expansion.in in game terms or ideas, aura is your ships computer talking, the tutor could be a one time code snippet in your ships memory banks that was placed there by some ai designer to help you out.have fun!ruthbarps: i am surprised that there is no input from csm at all on the feedback and issues discussions. would have hoped you would be able to give some insides behind the decisions ccp made here. [edit]with the above i assume aura was changed for the npe only, obviously if there are other situations where aura's new voice is now used outside the npe my idea wont work.[/edit]
yes, i suppose it would be strange to have two different auras. if the npe is in the new voice, a new player would expect the notifications to be in the same voice.
"aura was changed both in the npe and the notifications. i admit a new player would have no attachment to the original. perhaps i was a little ""bittervet"" about it."
people who are stating '' it's a change and we must accept that'' are the kinda players that play eve online without sound or they simply need the presence of a real woman ( or at least her voice ) next to them. eve first of all should be ( and is ) an immersive game. the voice of old aura combined with the ambient of space and it's specific music, represents the perfect recipe for a awesome virtual sci fi experience. what new aura does, is simply to wake up from all that, like an annoying girl friend with a stupid voice. please bring back old aura or at least give us an option to mute the new one.
sorry <3 i really do though :p
"hi folks,i am running again this year for the csm, to represent all those that play the game outside of the reach and domination of the ""establishment"" of new eden. freedom fighters, rebels and guerilleros of new eden, i am your candidate.the ploons have dominated csm xi, with a null sec centric majority of members belonging from the goons and/or pandemic legion. these groups weight on the game we all share by pushing rules that favor maintaining their hold on new eden. they use their influence to alter the rules of the game to their benefit, and i am running to provide a counter point to their influence within the csm.i have been playing since 2009, and played solo for half the time i have been in new eden. like many new players attracted by the pvp aspect of this game, i headed to null sec quickly after i started playing, went through a training corp that funneled me in one of the largest coalition of the time, northern coalition. i did not find the game-style of blobbing and tidi fleet fights very compelling, and i got tired of paying taxes and be just another dps provider in their fleets. i was not ready to recruit others to beef up my personal income on their taxes and game-play time either.so i went solo, i left the big alliances, played in low sec for a bit then quickly moved into an empty c2 wormhole, doing pi and sleepers sites mostly. after a year and a half or so, i established contacts with players from a larger corp that were in a budding alliance, called insidious empire. i decided to return to play with a larger group to check it out again. after a few months, this group decided to join the goons, and soon thereafter the b0tlords accords were signed by the power players of null sec. this was too much for me, and i left the goons to return to my solo play-style. i returned in a c3, and built my first capital, while harassing larger null sec groups from wormhole space, thanks to my ns static.i also ran for csm xi and csm x to combat the influence of established power group working to protect their incomes. i was a big fan of the announced siphons mechanic, that got nerfed to uselessness even before being launched by the csm. this is what prompted me to run for csm, to try to counter the voices of the power-players trusting the csm seats to the benefit of their own play-styles that i did not share.i also started creating the concept of the minarchist revolution and decided to help the minarchist space project, to establish a minmatar null sec bloc while differentiating ourselves from the corrupt minmatar republic. i did some flying for the minmatar faction warfare, and even if not very active, i am proud to have been in one of minmatar faction warfare best corp at the time where minmatars won all systems in the fw zone.with my other characters, i fought with moa against the goons before world war bee became a thing, and i am now helping defend tribute against the invasion of panfam. like brave before, pandemic legion wants to take co2 down so as to not let competing groups grow enough to become a menace to their imperialistic hegemony and their isk making operations across null sec. i fight in new eden for freedom and against the ""establishment"" and its corruptions.i believe the csm is a lobbyist group, where so far all the places have been trusted by those players representing null sec and the older power-players, the master puppeteers of new eden. i believe other play styles and newer players who did not sell their souls as lobbyists for the established powers need to be represented to help defend features that would not benefit only the power-players playstyle. they want each of us to pay them rent, taxes and i am a prime example of a player that does not accept that. the csm must have independent voices that can balance the voices of the ploons when they want to alter new game features to their benefit. one example are the siphons that could have hit passive isks moon mining income with an active gameplay, the csms never denounced the api that was ratting them out. previous csms have tainted multiple rules designed to curve the influence of the larger groups. the rapid regeneration of entosis nodes even in systems the owners do not actively occupy is an example of such corruption that previous csms have brought to new rules. more recently, the limitation of the game of alts to omega clones only is another scandalous meddling to prevent newer players, and more casual players, to develop multiple accounts like most power-players do. instead they want to funnel these new players and more casual players to join them, so they can continue to accumulate wealth and power to prevent the rise of new powers. this is the real reason of the current war in tribute against co2, which is nothing other than a war to protect their established interests, much like kicking brave to the curve was a few years back.this is why i run for csm xii, to give a voice to those that do not have one."
"the kind of concepts i would defend if i was elected can be sampled belowbetter expose the influences of older players.when dealing with a pilot, you have no idea of the history of the player behind this alt, as the other alts are easily kept separated and obfuscated. this favor older power-players, with the means to plex multiple accounts, and make it very difficult to create emerging groups while keeping an open recruiting policy. these influences must be exposed, and the consequences of an alt actions against other pilots must follow the player around, not just the alt. spying is the more risk-free activity one can do in new eden, and it only favors those that already are part of the ""establishmen. i favor establishing benefits from linking alts of the same player together, to encourage players to link themselves their alts together.reduce the effectiveness of out of game data through api by creating a api fog of warintel obtained via out-of-game tools fed with automated api is getting out of hand. the worst example was the siphons, totaly made useless by these, but the dicature of the killboards impact the game we all share, narrowing play-styles possibilities significantly. i favor intel gathered by activity in-game rather than intel obtained via out-of-game resources.for example, i support adding a privacy check box for each pilot, that would prevent their name to appear on killmails if checked, and prevent destructed modules to show up on those kill mails. all killmails would still be generated, and attributed to an ""anonymous"" entry for each corp when displayed on the killboards. this would limit the intel people can get on others from the killboards without removing the stats at the corps and alliances levels. make it more diffcult for large alliances to maintain control of vast territories where they are not active directlyplayers empires should not be able to defend the systems at their fringes of their domain as easily as they defend their core. fro example, the current uniform regeneration of node timers allows vast swat of territories to be under the control of power players that are not even active in all the systems they claim, and thus limit the expansion of smaller groups. with a longer window of active nodes, the competition for farther system would become more difficult for the larger alliances, leading to more fragmented soveriegnty, which is a good thing for the game and the interactions between players. rental empires should be dismantled via changes of the game rules. the new sov system has made great strides in that direction, but did not go far enough yet.continue the efforts to minimize the efficiency of blobsmany progresses have been done on this front in recent years, including the removal of off-grid boosting or the addition of command destroyers. another example of something i would tackle is making bridging ships automatically jump at the end of their bridges, forcing them to be part of the combat, and forcing the larger groups with the means to do so to increase the number of pilots bridging others, rather than using 100% trust-proof alt account of the power-players. the power-players must be forced to relinquish their control to other players to maximize the benefit of their numbers.develop more simulations for new players, to expose them to pve elements of the game before they have to undockthe introduction of the fitting simulation is a great step forward for all players. for new players, it could be tied to a pve simulation done within their station of origin that would help them practice pve missions with simulated ships, without any rewards and without any risks of interference by other oplayers, until they feel the simulation has made them feel ready to undock and find their pve in new eden.only one term for csm memberslong term csm members create the same issues of undue influences that we see in real life from lifetime politicians. csm xi has shown a csm that has done its work (albeit in favor of the ploons mainly) despite having 13 out of 14 members being new. so we can, as a community, advance new csm members every year and keep the csm fresh, relevant and active."
.. reserved ..
12 of 14both gorski and myself have been around for previous terms.while i'm more than a touch biased on this (three terms, and i'll be running for a fourth), my personal feeling is that having some people from previous csms available is useful. there's some institutional knowledge which is beneficial to pass between csms, along with pre-established relationships.

... you are also the main api lobbyist in the csm, which likely makes you biased against my api fog of war agenda too at the very least.i did not count gorski, as his previous participations before csm xi were done midterm, through replacement. last year was the first year he was elected from the get-go.


could we atleast have a setting or mod that lets us use the old aura
there are problems with the csm - player relationship, but it seems to be just on the willingness to communicate publically. i can't speak for anyone else, but i know i get 2-3 pokes a day on slack, discord, twitter, eve mail, email, even in game chats, wherever people find it easiest to communicate on things to think about as a csm member and to pass onto ccp. reddit isn't an ideal place to do this as a lot of people don't want to be judged for their opinion, which i completely understand. however i also reach out and ask things in return, when conversations with either ccp or within the csm go to a subject i lack expertise in. it's a feedback system.
imho not a problem of the game... more likely a problem of acute min-maxing disorder.
as with many changes, especially in terms of things that are personal preference, we always ask for a 'nope' option. but this was felt to be immersion breaking as the voice was different to the tutorial aura. personally i hope they do find a way to bring voicepacks to eve for this sort of thing, as i would love a rahne (valkyrie's protagonist) or fatal (antagonist) vo for the game, as well as opening the door for a revival of old aura.
they should have hired claudia black to voice the new aura. her accent is much closer to old aura. and she was cool in stargate sg1.
but people are willing to communicate publicly. look at those threadnoughts spawning after ccp devblogs. well - i am, that's for sure. i'd rather have my ideas criticized and if i'm proven wrong - so be it, but if i am supported that gives me an even stronger initiative to push it further. unfortunately, that's not possible. csm does not participate in discussions in those threadnoughts, and does not have its own platform either.example: recently i stumbled upon a wardec round table. i have no idea how i found it, but it was great. it was though-provoking, and i have something to say now that i've watched it. but how? leave a comment on youtube?
be sure to check out our twitter too, its a very good place to stay up to date. other then that i think we all are daily logged in on about a thousend channels (discord/slack etc.) so be sure to poke us.after ascension we will continue to talk about new topics with ccp about the future of eve and when we find out these topics, we will likely host some townhalls etc. again. so more to come is what i say!
voicepacks would be interesting, and as seen in the npe ccp is starting to use voice actors, so it could be down the line.
i too prefer the old voice over. to be honest, the new voice is annoying. it would be very nice if they would give us a choice on it.
to answer your questions:because you simply dont have enough time in a day, you cant be both isd and csm, trust me. this means that you can be either a csm member or an isd. you are not banned from running though, you will simply have to give up your position as isd to become an csm member. there are no timeframes either from what i know, just simply that you cant have both tags at the same time.

"voicepacks would be a great addition! why ccp cant get into it? i am sure people would make their own sound samples and add them to the game, and share them. 

"
probably because they aren't wizards and have limited time in the day :)
cannot agree strongly enough.








bella jennie wrote:black pedro wrote:bella jennie wrote:is this how ccp feels? i'm wondering?ccp falcon wrote:i love eve and the core of what the game stands for. that's why i've been dedicated to it and its community for over 11 years now.risk vs reward is a huge part of that.honestly, if that changed, and the game started to soften out and cater to those who want to have their hand held all the way through their gameplay experience, i'd rather not be working on the project regardless of how many subscribers we had, than sell out the core principles that new eden was built on.that's a sentiment that i hear a lot around the office, because we are all invested in what makes new eden so compelling - the dark, gritty, hard reality beneath the pretty ships and nebulas.eve is built on the core principle that you are never 100% safe, no matter where you go or what you do. when you interact with another player, you roll the dice on whether they're going to screw you over or not. that's a massive part of the social engineering behind the very basic underpinnings of the eve universe.things change.. especially after 11 years..all that is being discussed here is making ganking a bit riskier and more difficult & expensive in hisec.- there is a far larger game arena available where one could do all the ganking they want.. what's the problem with such a scenario?by the way, it's easy to recognize by now, that ccp falcon is a fanatic - an extremist.- but he's only 1 person at ccppersonally, i think it's this kind of fanaticism that drives players out of the game and keeps new ones from joining.things do change after 11 years +, and it has become much more dumbed down and much more newbie friendly. the old adage of the steep learning curve has been erased. we now have peeps wearing safety pins, curled up in their safe space clutching their participation trophy for dear life. yes, it has been a drastic change, and you can directly relate the loss of membership to the changes.
war dec is a part of the game, by logging off and hiding you have removed your self from the field of play. no one has prevented you from logging on, un docking and or interacting.
