"this battle is far from over my friend."
"too long have npc corp members been able to hide their actions in an untouchable corp. if someone choses to be in an npc corp, their safety should be locked to green to prevent illegal activity. if you want to engage in that behavior, get out of npc protection."
"butthurt that a noob stole your loot and you can't declare war on him? that's sad :(that noobs or \"professional npc corp members\" answer to your proposal is, creating a corp, taking your cans and close that corp to go back to \"npc protection\".it might hinder new players of doing something illegal - but wait, isn't this what we want them to do? to engage with other players? how about a lock on red for them?about how many untouchable npc corp members are we talking?"
"i don't get it. if they commit an illegal act you get to shoot them, with no wardec or any other strings attached.what would be solved by forcing them into a corporation?"
"the tv in the captain's quarters can be annoying and repetitive. can we please get a button to mute it? or if a way to mute it exists can someone please inform me?"
"explain why exactly - exactly."
"battleships will win!also you seem to be an amarr frigate. those are ****. heavy neut is love."
"1v1 at sun coward"
"i want to watch."
"all valid concerns.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"no.some, such as myself are in npc corps but still do group activities like npsi roams.others gank. they have aright to do so and a right to be in an npc corp . . . so nom"
"be great to have in spanish the client to play the spanish people"
"backup is on standby."
"we are ready and waiting."
"grabs popcorn"
"this is not going to be the expected salty tears of a bittervet , but a series of valid points that took multiple factors into account and an attempt to remain objective:mercenaries: these organizations once had entire communities, and on-call channels where you could pay your hard-earned isk to defend your assets against an overwhelming force, to deny assets/routes/hubs to enemies, or to mercilessly hunt and slaughter your enemies, wherever they were.unfortunately, that is not the case today. today, many of the larger mercenary organizations have become mass-deccing, instalocking, trade-hub/choke point camping f1 monkeys who are half paying attention to their intended targets as they pass through a choke point or undock from a station while they're doing something far more entertaining than just sitting in the same place. why is that? it is because one of the best tools that they had was ripped away to protect the delicate sensitivities of the supercapital pilots who \"never could log on\" because \"everyone knew where they were\" or \"everyone knew they were online.\" so what we have today is an entire group that has turned into griefing mass-deccers with no better purpose than podding a newbro as he undocks because he didn't know better, or an industrial corp ceo telling people they can't play a game that they pay for, or thousands who now can't go sell their products that they worked hard to obtain/produce/steal, etc, etc, etc. my proposal is the removal of the \"buddy list\" and going back to the old-school watch list. the reasoning is simple. supercapitals can now tether/dock at citadels (and any alliance which can afford a fleet of supercapitals should be able to afford at least one citadel to serve as a home station for their supers/and should be able to defend this location). am i asking for a nerf to anything? no. am i saying a feature need to be absolutely removed? nowhat i am asking is that ccp take into account that they created a feature which has created serious ramifications, and have ostracized an entire community of pilots that was once great (as if one merc org had too many running contracts, they would pass it off to another for a finders fee and to ensure that the client received the best services for the isk provided). i am thinking that some constructive feedback and dialogue between ccp and the playerbase (not just those with large numbers of subscriptions) and the re-evaluation of a \"feature\" that they have created which is not in the best of interests of the community, the playerbase as a whole (think of how many subscriptions get lost to permadecs from the current \"merc\" groups). what i am asking for is balance. i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"sounds like someone got their d*** kicked in the dirt and has no means of recourse. welcome to new eden buttercup. it's not forgiving, nor is it fair, and you do have to disregard the frozen corpses in space occasionally.option a) figure something out for retaliationoption b) give me your stuff before you hit the biomass queue.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"well, technically you do want to nerf the buddy list and the current status quo, so... edit: just saw your post in another thread where you basically told the op there to 'htfu and adapt or gtfo'. i think we can safely turn that around back onto you, now."
"it is a shame that your instant, uncounterable, unlimited and perfectly reliable intel source has been removed to the detriment of your old playstyle. i myself would like a shield mod that gives 100% omni resists for when i just want to afk rat while watching a film - this is to name but one example - so i share something of your sorrow.as it is, i find myself forced to consider alternative methodologies, some of which - to my dismay and regret, i will not hide or deny - involve effort and risk. at this time i can only suggest that you investigate analogous options to advance your own goals until such time a ccp restores your entitlements."
"you use the global lingua franca just like the rest of us"
"turn off your computer"
"hmmm.... so what are the options now? world building seems to require a good lore base, and if world building has been abandoned, that doesn't speak well for the future of the game."
"just a thought...may i suggest, when we get the option to hire concord police to guard it? the option would have to be very expensive as it would brake the game otherwise..and you can hire an entire fleet like 100 or so..so it can counter big fleets trying to take it down... imagine a small alliance that can't afford to guard it them selfs..that option would give them a chance. the alliance would have to have a maximum number of players...anything bigger can guard it them selfs"
"most of the people in the mercenary community don't even want to have the watchlist. they understand why the change was made in the first place. what we don't like is the blanket solution to a problem that only effect the nullsec side of the game. the changes effects more than just nullsec cap games. it also hurt wormhole and highsec. i don't really care about the old watchlist, but i do want some way to show me if my war targets are indeed online are not. giving cap pilots watchlist immunity, or watchlists not working for those who are in nullsec would obviously work. #deletetheweak"
"this carrier needs some love. the tiny fighter hangar and useless ecm optimal range bonus is really insulting."
"it does seem a little unbalanced that players can now logout of the game leaving those hunting them no mechanism to determine if they should continue to chase or if they are spinning their wheels. such a counter to this instant, uncounterable, unlimited and perfectly reliable ability to leave the game universe doesn't have to be instant and free as the watchlist was, but there should be some tool to counter the ability of players to completely and infallibly remove themselves from the game universe without the ability of the other players to find out they are now in an invulnerable state.i don't think anyone will claim the plight of super pilots didn't need to be addressed in some manner, but the solution has seriously hurt wormhole pilots and bounty hunters/mercenaries stalking specific targets. you can tell them to just 'htfu' and go infiltrate corps or keep alts logged in 24/7 everywhere but that doesn't change the equation where it is just now too much work to hunt specific targets now that it is more likely than not they will be logged off when you find them. so players have stopped, and will continue to stop doing it.less things are going to happen now in the sandbox because of this change. a roll-back isn't going to happen, but some sort of accommodation or new intel channel is necessary if you want hunter-style game play to continue to take place in eve."
"i totally agree with it.instead, make the rewards into something that's not directly isk. make rewards dependant on what you do. kill a rat, get some random loot, do a data/relic site, get some relic/data random loot, kill someone in pvp, get some bounty money and so on."
"if you can't protect what you own, then you don't deserve to own it. simple as that."
"true..but i could protect it...if i had the option mentioned above...there are people that don't have the numbers to protect what they own but they got the money to hire security..simple as that"
"i totally agree. i'm sure if ccp sends you all the localization texts you'll get right on it to have it translated. right?"
"wait.. people still use sounds in eve online in 2016?"
"then you can already hire security in the form of mercenary groups. pay others to help you protect what you can't on your own. you could also go into a mutually beneficial relationship with other groups on the same level of participation as you and together you'd be stronger, keeping your money.ah, but you'd like to be like a solo player with swathes of npcs protecting your space. right, never going to happen."
"locator agent with a 30 second response time and 80% of the isk back because he just flat out can't find your target.timer and isk back feature to be discussed for balance purpose of course but the agent should tell you rather fast he just flat out can't find any lead to this dude's location."
"with the introduction of \"accuracy score\" to weapons, simplifying the calculations and the mental process of calculating relative accuracy of weapons, i want to propose the next logical step:introduce a new column in the overview called \"difficulty to hit\"this should be the result of factoring target resolution and radial velocity for objects on the overview, resulting a number on scale with weapons' accuracy score. this would result in a new way of presenting the same information you now have with radial speed and signature radius, and would make target selection and gunnery extremely streamlined, intuitive, and newbie-friendly."
"completely agreed. already mentioned this many times. everybody i invited to join me in eve rejected just because the tutorial and the main interface is not in spanish. i fail to understand how ccp still completely ignores this language 12 years into the game."
"i feel like the buddy list is overall what was intended for the original mechanic. the watchlist became a gameable intel source and not much more. locator agents are a different topic, and i would be more than happy to hear your opinions on that (mail me!), but i will have to disagree that we should revert back to the old watchlist. keep moving foward, never back!-judge"
"can any of you csm types ask ccp if we can get fw size restrictions fixed? novice should be t1 frigates only. small should be t1 destroyers, faction frigates and t2 frigates. medium should be cruisers and t2/t3 destroyers. large should be t2/t3 cruisers and battlecruisers. a new extra large size should be added to replace the current large. it would be more evenly matched that way. the way things are they might as well rename novices to garmur and small to svipul."
"i propose that all market orders at citadels have the system name prepended to the location in the market screen.after all, if the market is part of the scc mechanism, the scc really ought to know where the market is.i believe that this proposed behaviour is already how the markets in outposts work."
"+1 \"orte jaitovalte sitasuyti ne obuetsa useuut ishu. ketsiak ishiulyn.\" -yakiya tovil-toba-taisoka"
"nooooo!"
"i really appreciate the effort you put into your post. can you give us a few minutes more of your precious time and provide us with more details why? preferably with more than one word if it's not too much."
"only if they deliver on the damned musical instruments*bumble likes to toot his own floot*"
"fun fact: the game's coding considers navy and pirate faction frigates to be tech 1.last i heard, some devs wanted to make your idea happen but then ran into some problems."
"it's completely doable. it'll just be more effort if they coded it wrong the first time. granted, i'm not a coding wizard, but it should just be as simple as adding complex size to the array the ship stats are stored in and then checking that when it tries to enter a plex. it's more of a tedious and time consuming thing than a difficult one."
"if the ccp corp would allow us to come together, you would not longer need to toot your own floot."
"devs when they read about fw:"
"never forget!"
