"i do appreciate all of the support. but you know, malcanis is on to something. someone with a better understanding of kickstarter than i have needs to get something set up so that we can finally have wis. i mean, if we can get pizzas for devs in iceland in a matter of a couple of hours, someone with a very clear and defined skillset when it would come to development of wis type things (station environments, et cetera), help do a writeup of things. at any rate, i think it would do better than the book that mittens tried to have written to fellate his own ego.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"that magnificent outfit has left everyone speechless. i wish you luck in pursuing all of those items to be available in the in game store so you can have the adornments your planetary representative is able to enjoy."
"i vote for you, top of the ballots plse !players with disabilities is huge,, my hands are forever sore using crutches so typing actually causes me pain, development on the in-game voice stuff via micrrophone and/or any other disability enhancements would be a dream come true :)good luck & thx loads in advance, will have fingers, tows, arms, everything crossed lol !"
"hah. hahaha. hahahahahaha.who the hell even likes gayfl?"
"i vaguely remember ccp seagul saying something along the lines that if it does happen it would be in a separate client.would be a surprising twist if the successor to dust514 turned about to be exactly that."
"how about players being able to make the same name as another corporation/alliance/character while keeping the old ones?give a delay of say 10 years or so before someone else can copy a name?"
"i also don't see why people can't be more imaginative when making corporations/alliances."
"the reason people were angry was not just microtransactions and greed is good but the pittingly small amount of wis that was delivered, 1 captains quarters and that's it on release aside from pirate ship rebalance and fancy new turret models. how many months were they working on it? id like wis but id also like something added to the game in a meaningful amount as well as to the spaceship part of the game.id rather have the game change positively instead of cascading because you only get a captains quarters or other drip fed content without being tied to gameplay that complements it. look at the upcoming citadel expansion for what kind of content complementing other content, should go into an expansion. citadels and capitals go together very well.a wis expansion should be structured like citadels with meat instead of potatoes, though even potatoes would have been an improvement compared to incarna. people will resub when they see content that they see improves the game, captains quarters on its own could never deliver that."
"yeah i start to like him :)with kickstarter there are several problems:- how much attention and money people will pay for a campaign which never will be realized? without ccps support there is no wis in eve.- what stands wis for and what makes it desirable? here are many good rough ideas but when it comes to the details, they differ a lot. so what exactly will be advertised?- even mittani with his public reach couldn't get much attention for his book despite the aid of others like scott m.. how will wis' kickstarter campaign reach its patrons?done good, such a campaign can put a lot of pressure on ccp. done bad it's a nail more in the coffin.anyhow, i'm not sure what to think about the the scope news in the captains quartierts. ain't that something you can call a wis feature?"
"so would expanded standings limits."
"i think an alternative would be that the entire belongings would be transferred to an npc station that has both research and production slots avaliable, without actually changing ownership. it's just the location."
"no, op, just no.i'm a miner myself and hulk has always been the king of yield. and that's why it has so many disabilities compared to other exhumers/barges.it's fine the way it is. hulk has always been the strip miner of choice where you want the biggest yield. skiff/procurer, mackinaw/retriever were more catered to solo mining."
"sooner or later eve will start catering to a slightly larger audience. not by softening the game too much, but rather by reducing the confusion of one's decisions.with that said i heard they are eventually going to be introducing more player friendly services like name changes (with name logs of course). if you don't believe me, then why on earth are skill injectors a thing."
"honestly if they gave you the option to watch the actual news reports, that would be kind of cool.furthermore, why not take some of the work being done on the new fps and put it toward wis? i mean, you already have people working on people models, so why not utilize it to their advantage. i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"what would happen if sov was a numerical value solely based on the following (20d averages)? <U+FFFD> owned structures in system <U+FFFD> pilots active > docked > logged out in system <U+FFFD> supers logged or active in system <U+FFFD> jumpbridge/cyno/jammer in system<U+FFFD> hostile assets destroyed in system<U+FFFD> total value of items being built in that system/alternatively titans and supers onlywhat would be so bad about untying jump bridge networks, the construction of supers, cyno jammers and other things from sov?what would the flag that sov is mean if these changes were in the game and what does sov mean now except that a group won the sov laser game at some point?i am not an expert on null mechanics and the last meaningful war i participated was under dominion sov. this is not a troll attempt but genuine questions that came to my mind while reading up on sov changes in preparation of wwb. maybe some csm can explain why we still need this arbitrary layer of abstraction in a sandbox game like eve?"
"unless the new fps turns out to be a league of legends clone."
".do not run. we are your friends."
"then he has to think up a new name."
"you think \"po1ice\" is imaginative?"
"to all who still think that wis will never come because ccp said so:source: skill trading in new edensource: daily opportunities coming soonthat shows how much a statement from ccp is worth."
"wis is dead, as are the reasons that ccp had for pursuing it in the first place.have a little respect and allow the corpse to rest in peace."
"in its original form yes. avatar gameplay as general concept not."
"i dunno about handing out sp in the daily opportunities, but i think that ccp should hand out some limited edition tear collection vessels...because yours are as sweet as ambrosia!"
"even tears lose their flavour if you have too many of them and mine are too rich for your peasant tastes"
"stock shares maybe we can utilize the unused stock option tool in corporation management. if eve charged 1 million isk a year for a corporation charter license, the fee can improve eve in the following way. failure to pay the one million isk payment for the previous year mandates concord to issue shares on the corporation behalf to pay their bill! (note active corporations could be exempt from this fee or action! but i just cannot see 1 million isk bill being a deal breaker for any corporation except for dead corporations!) suddenly the dead corps assets and name becomes a hot commodity. every 30 days just like tax auctions in real life on properties on delinquent eve corporation accounts. those dead corporations must pay their past due taxes! to generate isk, new shares issued would start at 1000 isk per share. hence if a 1000 shares sold on the open market via concord at 1000 isk (minimum) each. the million isk tax collection bill would satisfied the dead corporation tax bill for the last year! the current ceo would be credited a minimum of 1000000 isk when or if he/she ever returned. (chicken feed isk to be honest.) now let's say the dead corporation has 3 dead sticks up and unknown ship hanger items. ah, now we will have interest in these dead corps. dare i say a bidding war could happen? frankly if and when the absentee ceo returns he/she will find their coffers stuffed with isk! prospective bids for the new issued stocks bids would be sealed for each of the 1000 shares in question. the seven day process would reveal the potential bidders only. the amount of the bid for each share is a secret. now certainly a conversation could happen between the contestants for the dead corporation in a good old fashion price fixing/threats fashion that eve commerce is legendary known for. (but remember this eve where someone is always greedy!) after the closed auction for dead corporation shares feelings are hurt, but the cycle of death and rebirth continues. maybe the corporation in question is a one man outfit! why would anyone buy that? well maybe the name is cool. maybe he left an old cruise ships in an office somewhere??? maybe the corporate wallet is stuffed full of iskies!!!! anything is possible? now i have read the statement that ccp wants to keep these corporations names intact just in case they want to return! fair enough point! however in eve it is perfectly legal to war dec a corporation into oblivion who has an active subscription pilots! so why is the player who left eve online exempt from this harsh reality of eve??? if anything they are hurting active players with their bloat of gaming data and their space floating items a navigational hazard in space! eve has done a great job lately in fixing problems in game playing recently. it is very clear they are desperate to hold onto their subscription base! this idea could potentially open an entire new type of warfare! stock shares could actually for the first time mean something in this game! suddenly the industrialist who is lousy at pvp has an option for warfare that is more familiar to him! corprate pirate hostile take over arrrggg! to spur on competition for corporation charter licenses maybe there should only be a fixed amount of corporations allowed in eve at one time. if i cite history and i always do! there are only so many star systems in eve thus creating conflict for them. if can apply the same concepts to economic warfare! (the caldari is made of ruthless mega corporations blab la bla!) what would the benefit to eve online as a whole. firstly it would delete a lot of bloat data in the game. (john's rookie ship that has been sitting in whatamatter u space station since 2006 can finally be deleted!) dead sticks can be taken down for a profit not costing someone 50000000 isk and a gaming day in mindless shooting! )"
"the corporation i'm in has existed since 22nd of november 2008 and doesn't fall into the category of dead corporations, so i don't see what this has to do with relevance to this topic. whoever was making the corp, probably had some reasons for naming it such.what the topic is about is probably someone wanted the name of magna charta or something \"cool\", but found out it was taken already."
"fafer has my vote!"
"in december 2007 i clicked on an ad for this weird sounding game. i read a bit about it, and it sounded awfully much like the game which ate my youth <U+FFFD> elite frontier. sometimes i jolt over the fact that i<U+FFFD>ve played this game for nine years. i<U+FFFD>ve never done that. i lasted, i think, two in world of warcraft. i lasted three months in swg. yet, here i am, nine years later.why did i stay? because eve isn<U+FFFD>t like world of warcraft. eve isn<U+FFFD>t quite like anything else out there. oh, i<U+FFFD>ll complain and moan about stupid things in the game, but it<U+FFFD>s a complaint that comes from a love of the game. a love of the atmosphere of the game. a love of<U+FFFD>sometimes i<U+FFFD>ve tried to rationalise why i love this game, and it always comes back to one thing. unlike world of warcraft, unlike star wars galaxies, or elder scrolls, playing eve is not playing against eve. know what i mean? eve is playing against other humans. eve is not playing against the system, or the mechanics, or the environment. playing eve is to play against the multitudes of humans that dwell inside the blocks of pixels on my screen.why do some people not like eve? i think they fail to grasp this. they expect to play against an algorithm, an ai, an npc, or an environment. they come to the game expecting to play against the system. but doing that is terrible. the npcs and the pve is just a means to an end: to get a fixed contact point with other humans. either through in-game interpersonal alliances or enmities, or through cooperative play. if that doesn't happen, then eve is dry and boring and pointless.so, by all means leave. if the essence of what i<U+FFFD>ve described in these paragraph changes<U+FFFD> if eve becomes a game played against the system, rather than the humans, then i<U+FFFD>m most likely out of here. and through all the contacts, friendships, conflicts, and drama i<U+FFFD>ve gone through during these last nine years, i can say with relative certainty despite it being anecdotal that most players are like me. they<U+FFFD>re not like you.good bye. hope you find a game better suited for you.ccp foxfour: \"... the what button... oh god i didn't even know that existed. brb.\""
"what is the design goal around the sp gain?"
"honestly as useless as it sounds to most of us veterans, new players love this kind of stuff. i have a lot of friends who really like how eve looks and works but aren't playing for the sole purpose that they can't leave their ship and interact with other players, face to face, as their character. add a lobby in every station for capsuleers, maybe have it restricted in mass populated stations like jita 4-4 to private quarters with limited capacity. no one is going to quit eve if ccp expands on this, the only result is more players."
"it is infinitely easier to not do something than it is to do it."
"still goin strong."
"first let me define my perspective so you understand why i am suggesting an alternative rather than pushing ccp to drop the idea. i apologize that this will make the post long-winded, but my suggestion sounds insanely stupid and impossible unless you look at it from a particular perspective.the *motive* behind ccp's proposal is entirely laudable, even if it is at the behest of spreadsheet managers. more people in the game does create more potential for \"fun stuff to happen\". i believe this means that dailies are an inevitable and implacable consequence for all mmos as soon as player retention becomes an issue. that may also be why so many of us casually link dailies with mmos that are becoming less popular, when in fact the cause and effect is not as straightforward as you might think.so if it is inevitable, then the only thing we as players can \"do\" is advise ccp on better ways to implement the concept.so first of all what are the negative aspects of the current proposal? the rewards are sp, which is considered by many to be over-powered. ccp are telling people how to play, not rewarding the meta-game/\"alternative\"/rp/etc players in eve and turning logging in into a chore. (there's more to it than that, but i think that's a fair summary of the player response so far)i would suggest that point 1 is putting the cart before the horse, until you have valid requirements, arguing over the incentive to complete those requirements doesn't make sense. so i'm just going to call it the \"reward\" from here on in and put that issue aside.with point 2, i would actually say it's the chain of reasoning where ccp have made their mistake, rather than in their final decision to implement the \"kill a rat\" requirement. if the motive is to get more people online, the obvious conclusion is you need a mechanism that appeals to, or is not objectionable to, or is simple to do for the broadest number of players. if you accept that conclusion then ccps choice makes perfect sense, but i don't accept it and consider it to be flawed.a lot of people have commented that \"kill a rat\" is going against the \"sandbox\" principle of the game, i would say instead you need to review the conclusion about reaching the broadest player base in the light of the sandbox principle. there is no \"broad\" appeal in a sandbox, there is however \"diverse\" appeal. leave the \"broad\" appealing to the themepark mmos who do it best.the problem is ccp do not see a way of creating a \"diverse\" requirement for the daily. lots of people have suggested alternative opportunities geared towards pvp, sovnull, etc., but for ccp to implement an opportunity for all the suggestions out there it would become an immense unwieldy feature at huge cost to them.so we come at last to the crux of my argument, how do you create daily opportunities that can appeal to all the diverse players in the game?my suggestion is, at it's heart, to allow player corporations to determine what the daily opportunities should be, day by day. players will have a far better idea of what other players will be prepared to do for the daily reward than ccp ever will (and i'm sure they would agree with this too), as well as be able to change them according to fluctuations in the game without needing ccp involvement.why would corporations agree to do this?i would suggest that being a dungeonmaster (dm) is just as much fun as playing a wizard, warrior or thief. maybe not to everyone, but clearly we have dms in eve, only we call them fcs, officers and ceos. so i'm fairly sure there would be enough people willing to to come up with diverse and imaginative opportunities if there was a means to do so. they should even be motivated enough to police the system and keep everyone \"playing by the rules\" just as tabletop gaming dms do. and corporations already have the ability to punish their members for breaking corp rules, which can be used to backup their policing. finally they can set the opportunity to be something which helps the entire corporation, thereby making even the most trivial task meaningful to the player completing the opportunity.how could something so complex be implemented in eve?so my \"quick and dirty\" solution is to give the daily reward for completing at least one corporation contract. it is not the most ideal format for implementing this concept, but it has the advantage that it should require no more effort on ccps part than they have already invested in \"kill a rat\", while at the same time having the potential to do almost everything i've described above. at the very least if it was implemented it would give us some idea of whether this concept could be made to work in eve and if it really would be a better direction than ccp are choosing."
"more players = more targets = more peweveryone winsi am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"only if there was literally nothing better that ccp could spend the very considerable amount of money on that would work better. given that \"real\" wis would mean restarting the project from scratch again, you're basically asking ccp to create an entire game and then give it to the existing customers for free.i'd suggest reframing the proposal into something a little more attractive to a business with shareholders to account to."
"do you have any suggestions?i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"true. let players place their structures - including those that require sovereignity now, everwhere they want. the fact that the structures are there and not shot down - means they \"own\" sov, or structures. if the structures are shot down, they don't \"own sov\" there, because - we can see clearly they can't defend their structures. anyway there is no \"sov\" there are only structures. it's not like installing an anomaly generating upgrade prevents the enemy to see and use the generated anomalies..."
"i'm not sure. we'll see sir. thanks for stopping in."
"catering to the noobs' perception that sp really matters. too many people coming in thinking that sp equals xp of other games, and simply having more makes you better."
"eyyyy"
"thanks to all that voted for me! i will do my best to justify your trust."
"i would like to thank everyone again for their support and votes during the campaign. while i have not managed to get on myself i'd it to think we are least helped jintaan secure his victory. well done all.the csm xi election are now open until march 25th, 2016. consider niko lorenzio for csm xi."
"the latest csm election result is probably as meaningful as the results of the latest parliamentary election in syria. the ruling party of the ploons have trusted 10 of the 14 seats. co2, nc. and provibloc each got their candidate in (co2 possibly timed their defection to milk goons votes for their representative), and the api/third party tools' guru steve ronuken easily kept his seat.only one candidate i endorsed made it to the csm, probably because of the support of the cohesive rp focused amarrian provi bloc. 11 out of the 14 candidates that were in my no-vote list got elected. the biggest surprise to me is that joffy did not get elected, despite being supported by low sec pirates. i am waiting to receive the detailed vote count from ccp to see how he fared exactly. on my side, i got 152 votes last year for my first campaign and i am curious to see how i did this year, as well as the other candidates that did not make it. i am sure this data will tell stories of its own, once it is released by ccp.this csm xi ends up being the most null sec centric csm i have ever seen since i started paying attention. but outside of the ploons, the main success of this election can be attributed to those independent voices pushing for not voting for csm. this election ended up with a very low turnout. 22345 votes. the only lowest turnout were for csm 2 and csm 4 way before my time in eve. from last year this is a drop of 40% and 73% less than the highest turn out ever (csm7)so this is a success for those independent voices, like gevlon goblin or luobote kong, that openly campaigned for not voting. too bad they both decided to abandon the game, despite an influence wielding that has been proven this year. the ploons will rule player's feedback and null sec for this coming year and \"actively represent all play-styles\" to ccp. is it already the effect of their influence at work when ccp announces today that jump fatigue could be moved to ships instead of pilots? if this happens, the richest will just need to multiply their expensive toys and store them across all regions and with the magic of uncatchable interceptors, 1 second tick servers, and jump cloning, have pilots ready to go anywhere, like good old time (for them).having not heard any significant announcement regarding citadels' passive income making, or any economically viable siphon-like feature to curve it, we can also listen to gevlon's warning about new jita once the current world war bee outcome decides who will be in the dominant position to create it (my bet is on pl which is why i chose to write ploons the way i do).it is hard to know what ccp really will get out of this csm. i chose to believe they wanted as many different opinions from varied play-styles as possible but they obviously chose to not interfere with a process they knew was being gamed, and end up with a skewed representation of play styles despite a candidate field that had a fairly broad range. if ccp truly wants diversified view points on their game they could easily have half of the seats filled by elected candidates, and then \"select\" the other half from the remaining candidates. here it is, with me wrapping my campaign this year on these notes. thanks to everyone that voted for me - keep up the good fight and value your independance. oh, and btw, if you are not plexing your account(s), you are just being taken advantage of by the ploons so *they* can do it. keep that in mind!o7"
"already made it in this very thread."
"okay, let me try:shareholders like increasing login numbers and f2p shooters. i count the upcoming dailies, dust514, project legion and project nova as validation for this point.the solution is project wis. - a f2p shooter within the eve-client.- current eve-avatars can be used in project wis and vice versa- soe combat suits can be used in project wis- combat suits from project wis can be used in eve- the project wis lobby is also accessible for eve avatars- interaction between eve and project wis players in project wis or eve. competitions between capsuleers and ex dusters for example.- since project wis is part of eve, their login numbers add to the eve numbers- undocking and diving in into the world of new eden is just one mouse click away (getting more people to try eve)- with more time you'll find more points, but this should be enough to get the idea behind itthis simply is a variation of earlier suggestions of splitting and thus lower development costs between two games. something that shareholders also should like.i for myself don't really like project wis, but if a pact with the devil shareholders is needed to get wis done, then so shall it be."
"we did it team! thanks you!"
"now this is what i was going for. not just a suggestion but a basic model of how to put it all together instead of racking my brain for a while. i do like the touch of basically having the login to project: wis being the point of entry into either eve or nova. basically choose your door type of thing. i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"hi to all the citizens of new eden . avery film and sound studios are currently making a pilot film, which is being shot in new eden. which will be submitted to ccp, so approvals for a feature film and miniseries can be obtained. to take this movie and miniseries to the next level, will have to obtain crowd funding. even if the tv industry does not pick up on the miniseries, it will still be posted on youtube for all new eden to watch. please note it will not just be a game play video, but actors, real sets ,a real film so those of you that want to see this happen. please lend your support by telling ccp in this forum. as the miniseries and motion picture can<U+FFFD>t happen without the approval of ccp. we are also hoping that they will be one of the crowd funder<U+FFFD>s. i<U+FFFD>m only a small company and will have to get crowd funding for the movie and miniseries to happen. but i have over 30 years experience in the industry, this is my second movie as the director and producer. i have entered many comps and one called shootout here in my own town; we had to make a film in just 24 hours.the larger event scenes will be shot within the test servers so only the invited players can take part. as well as making any chance of lag, less possible. also, allowing for the shooting costs, to be lowered. as we all know 100 isk is the cost of everything in the test servers. as well as the chance for players to fly ships they can afford to be destroyed and build sets that are far less cost to the purse. this is a zero budget operation. the only funds that i have been able to raise have had to be put into the purchase of a high quality 4k cinema camera. to allow for better resolution for our scenes shot in life. unfortunately due to the lack of funds, i have had to build sets which had taken many years. i<U+FFFD>m currently building one of the cockpits in my own home. as this is my own film. and it would not be the first time that my own house has been turned in to a spaceship. i have put a link to a video on youtube that was shot for a film competition where we had not only to erect the set but also to shoot the film and edit in a lineal fashion and only 24 hours to make your film. but also to introduce certain scripting words, certain actors, and even certain scenes, as well as other items that were totally foreign to whatever script that you had planned..luckily i had already prebuilt the fake walls within the set. making us, able to assemble, the sets in a shorter period. i even was able to use components from a previous film, which made our set a little bit better. but please note, that this film was shot and edited in camera in a lineal fashion. yet we did manage to shoot it. even though it was not the best, but it was an experience, and i still listed it on youtube. i have also made a feature film called final exit, which is still currently being made i.e. after editing we realized that some extra shots were needed. so it has not been released! the following link is the youtube video i spoke of"
"players taking part will also have the choice, of having their real name listed beside their player name. if they so wish. please note that if they wish their real name used. it will be listed in the extras section of the credits. only speaking roles will gain a actors credit. and yes some speaking roles will be given to players. players taking part will be requested to sign a legal document. i.e. a release form. as they will be no payment for this pilot film. as i have stated this is the zero budget pilot film, and will be used for a crowd funding video. but they will get bragging rights for sure, as all their names whether being a character name or real name or both. they will have to have this document signed and returned to me prior to taking part. all legal papers will be confidential. please note you are advised to request a copy of the signed release.players wishing just to be in the film. but not be listed in the credits. can still take part but must follow all instruction. only your ships will be used as back fill and if you don<U+FFFD>t want a credit you don<U+FFFD>t have to sign a release as you are just backfill. you must sign a release if you want the film credit. and yes there will be a extras credit list it will be long and fast.please also note standard film etiquette will be adhered to during the filming. and players trying to get a unauthorized voice over during film will cause a scene to be cut, and reshot. continued breaches will cause players to be blocked from voice-over channel. as we may not be a rich film company but film etiquette must be adhered to as we are planning this to be an a grade miniseries and motion picture, even though this is only a pilot all rules will still applywith thanks anthony averyavery film and sound studios"
"the film set i is currently being build in singularity thanks to all the testing. it has saved me some time setting up citadels , so if you want to build a city set it up in singularity and let me know. currently about 4 sets are underway by my crew and more planed as well as some other sets. please note if you are planning huge battles in tranquillity .let me know so i can film them in 4k, and they may even make the pilot or movie and miniseries. players wishing to take part in set design will also receive full credits in the project please note<U+FFFD> project new eden <U+FFFD> is just the name of the of the pilot any player can be in set design but must follow instructions as how to place items but set designers are also wanted but must follow the overall design and can pitch out new ideas and as they are involve structure that if destroyed won<U+FFFD>t stay and they can be rebuilt .but citadel sets are built for whole project till end on tv series if you want to please contact me via averyfilms@outlook.comps any actor rich or poor that wants to is welcome. please remember if you are an actor project new eden is a micro budget film and not even i get paid. no one gets paid for the pilot, as this could be the big break you have wanted all these years. please note all auditions are at actor expense as will be in newcastle australia! when announced all actors willing to audition for project new eden will be notified by this thread so keep your ears on and your eyes open. we are very close to start with in the years end i hope. those pilots wishing to fly ships as part of shots will just receive credit for which ever they doplease also note our credits list will be at the beginning of our films so people know who and how many people took part in our film and so they can<U+FFFD>t walk out and miss it . project new eden will become the next star wars remember before all the big names started they were nobody b grade film makers like myself with a dream well man do i have a dream.break a leg"
"good idea, butmakes me think that we don't play the same game."
"seriously.... your proposing a fps within the eve client... may as well abandon any other feature in eve for next 3-4 years if you want something like that... cause it will take all the dev time. (stop thinking eve is using the unreal engine/other fps engine... its not)i want walking in stations as much as you guys do.. but you have to keep it simple and acheivable. not some grand plan for another game within eve.i posted this a few pages back. fairly basic and compliments the existing game. would still take investment and resources by ccp but alot less than developing a compelte avatar experience within the game client.ideas that could be implemented with a moderate amount of work.- add scope videos to captains quarters. (already done. thanks ccp !)- use the resources of the eve 007 show and eve trailer production to put together a weekly summery on eve. make it voiced and animated by a npc newsreader. show it on cq screens. would help new and old players get interested in parts of the game they have not tried. eg could feature : sov news, low sec piracy stories, how to join a player corp segment, economic news and industry stats, new ship designs, ads for player corps, news on titan/xl citadel kills, large player battles etc etc.- add a room or wall for display of player trophy's / achievementscould be 1000 pvp kills get you a trophy or completing 1000 level 4 missions etc etc.allow miniature corpse heads or destroyed ship models with inscriptions... your best ever kill or most against all the odds victory.. allow players to memorialize their player experience.- add cq to citadels.\"...ppl need to get out of caves and they will see something new.... thats where eve is placed... not in cave.\" | zoonr-korsairs |"
"no, you got it wrong. malci wanted something shareholders would like. based on the past and current developments around eve, i described something that maybe fits more their needs.contrary to your comment it wouldn't take all the dev time of eve for the next years. it would take the dev time of those who worked already for project nova or dust or legion. wis would be a kind of byproduct. admittedly a larger one but still a byproduct, depending of how much features it contains.if in the end the shooter is part of the eve client or not, i don't care. nobody is forced to use it. - and yes, a full functional wis means to start from scratch again."
"don't want to get into a discussion about this cause its a side issue.. but the one key point is that building a fps or full avatar experience into the eve client is a much more difficult and time consuming endeavor than using a existing fps engine and starting a brand new game. project nova uses unreal engine, this engine is made for fps and content for fps style games can be created much quicker using its architecture and development kit. you cant hope to create a project nova style game in the eve client with eves engine in a similar time frame.\"...ppl need to get out of caves and they will see something new.... thats where eve is placed... not in cave.\" | zoonr-korsairs |"
"that's right we don't play the same game i'm not playing i'm making a movieb yes i'm same person as bluebeard"
"look upon my great works all ye mighty and despair!"
"why is this a bad thing? simply put, this is a sandbox game, and a player is rewarded for having their account sit afk, doing nothing. its a nice little way to pop more sp on for people actually playing the game, and a way for noobs to get sp fast without needing to grind incursions to get injectors. i'm %100 for it, i dunno why someone would be against it."
"jb - designed for large groups to move around in their space. putting that in ls makes it way to easy for people to avoid gate camps, and would make it 10 times easier for freighters to move through. in hs it makes freighting too easy. supers - makes it way to easy for some alliances to field supercaps. just buy them from a third party. cyno jammers - not in ls or hs. makes it too easy to disrupt freighters and caps to move. imagine someone putting that up in jita or amarr? in my opinion, ls needs to be more \"fair\" than null/sov null. the goal of ls (in my opinion) is to make an arena where people can fight without worrying about sovereignty, and with weapon constrictions (comparied to npc null). essentially, lowsec and sovnull are different playstyles and if you change stuff with sovnull, you're going to change ls and npc null."
"joining the biggest organised voting bloc in the game and sucking enough up to the leaders of said bloc (or being exploitable enough for their purposes) to be put on the ballot isn't really your work, though. someone else did that work for you. as you obviously are too deluded to realise (messiah-complex and all), you didn't win because of your causes. you don't have any. you won because you can be a tool for the cfc leadership, and if one should make a bet, it would be that getting you on the csm will close that institution down, either de facto or de jure, since it has ceased to be a meaningful platform for the cfc. despite your personality, your (lack of) qualifications, your insanity and your self-absorption, you got elected. someone in the cfc hierarchy decided to remake you, from a joke to a weapon. what made you the joke candidate everyone enjoyed before, has now become a joke on us. the question is, who will wield you, and who will you be pointed at?"
"all shall love me and despair this should be interesting..."
"wonder if the new csm members will review threads in this sub-forum and more importantly, show support for the proposal presented in this thread.one can only hope.dmc"
"a list1. this breaks the sandbox. instead of setting your own goals this is about a time based ccp set goal. it wowifies eve using ea level mechanics which have already been proved to be detrimental to other games.2. it proves that ccp are dishonest when in the skill injector blog they say 'while we make sure there is one single mechanism that brings new skillpoints in to the system <U+FFFD> training.' it proves that ccp are no longer the same developers that sang htfu.3. eve is supposed to be hard. the original idea of eve being hard is undercut when you add easy dailies.4. driving new players into mind-numbing pve options in a pvp game will not convince them to stay.5. sp are in my opinion supposed to be a unique commodity like gold, you can make money but new gold is impossible.skill extractors take from an already existing pool, they evaporate some sp and the rest is in the injector. this is good. the new way is sp faucets in the form of dailies, yay!6. it damages other peoples playstyles if they for example choose to be pacifist. instead of playing their way, they are being driven towards the rocky shore of daily tasks.7. it actively discriminates against time limited players. if you only have 2 hours a week people who have more can not only always have more sp than you but also a part of your precious 2 hours are spent doing something mind numbing instead of something exciting, something you would like to do instead of playing catch up.8. it hurts mission running in certain areas regarding standings, if for example you are doing serpentis missions, if you kill a serpentis npc to get your sp you lower your faction standing with serpentis which can hurt what missions you can do. if you are stuck in a region with only serpentis npcs, what can you do in order not to hurt your standings?"
"i think you missed my point, but whatever. so, this has nothing to do with eve at all then?"
"specials and promotions are given out based on a unfair policy where some of your accounts get an offer and others do not.this can be vary frustrating and moves against multiple character synchronization of your accounts in eve. i would like to see this policy revised and changed to account for persons with multiple accounts especially for persons that havepurchased accounts during the power of play promotion. any help in bringing this matter to the persons that can change this policy or assist power of play subscribers would be appreciated."
"ctrl - z"
