"extremely fun, for some of us. so malcanis is right in that creating a corp with a dozen other new players and hanging out in highsec is no way to play eve. joining a pre-existing corp or alliance can be problematic, however. fortunately for me, when i first started playing i ended up in an npc corp that has a group of players with a consistent presence in nullsec. it allowed me to pve and gain wealth while at the same time pvp and gain combat experience. i learned by playing both with and against people who have been in the game 10+ years. we have hard-core players, we have casuals. we have combat players, we have industry-only players.if you don't know anybody who is already in combat-capable corp, try some of the npsi groups. you don't need to be hard-core. just show up for a scheduled event when you have the time and follow along. try to make some contacts in game and figure out with whom you'd be happy. i don't really have much advice on how to find a corp to join though, having never gone through that process myself, sorry.(i don't like highsec, by the way. it's a terrible place to play eve and has terrible mechanics. i only visit it when i need a market hub.)"
"i noticed recently that carriers and fax ships have exactly the same suggested skills for mastery levels. so the fax needs skills in fighters and remote reps/triage likewise the regular carriers. however, given that a fax cannot use fighters and a carrier cannot do remote reps or triage, is it not sensible to split this mastery off. i know exactly what has happened here. they have taken the pre citadel mastery and just copied it to the new fax ships, instead of splitting the old mastery in half between the two ship classes to take account of new roles"
"honestly, who cares about the mastery system (apart from ocdites)?"
"i would like to propose a feature much like overview settings that apply to chat tabs.the purpose of which would to put them in a defined order, keep them in that order between log off and log on and then be able to color-code said tabs.it would be a nice thing and i think a lot of people would enjoy it and benefit from it.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"lately with these new updates and patches nothing interesting got out of them , so i was thinking if we could have to option to replace those station ads with a hd adult stream, for those of us that are 18+ ."
"i second this idea."
"awesome idea!!!!"
"while i'm not as against this as the judge was, following the current ships in the game it would most likely have a reduced cargohold from a bowhead. if you look at jump freighters vs. regular ones, the jump freighters sacrifice a significant amount of cargo for their mobility. that being said if this ship existed it's ship moving capability would most likely be a little over two battleships since the current bowhead is about 3 battleships. i doubt many people would utilize the ship as that cargo is barely more than what current carriers, fax, dreads, can already move."
"1.0"
"until the fax came along carriers were the fax's. the mastery is just a remnant of that. to reiterate what was posted though... mastery really doesn't gain you anything, just sorta a guide."
"personally, i'm 100% lawful hisec... but i do agree, aside from the presence of concord and national security forces, pirate nullsec regions should be just as liveable as their hisec equivalents.pirate lp stores should be the main source for pirate faction equipment and bpcs as player-created items rather than loot drops from npcs."
"hi!i just wanted to jump in to give my usual...bait.wait.set straight.requirements: corpmembers who realize that they <U+FFFD>can defend themselves.a few levels of gallente destroyer, blasters, damage skills.external chat.patience.rudimentary understanding of combat.you bait.corpmembers sit around you and log off.do so somewhere you know the hostiles are close.you wait.can take a while..you set straight.once a hostile enters system, everyone logs back in.that's the trickiest part.tactical bonus points if you count the seconds it takes warping from gates to your spot beforehand,and know how many seconds it takes your friends to show up on grid.remember: ten even lowly skilled catalysts dish out several thousand dps.next time you get decced, seek the best tactitian in your corp and show him this post.vary by flavour. (like, he might not sit close to you)even if you can't pop anyone, your losses will be low, but your morale will skyrocket!the biggest issue wardecced new players have isn't that they can't fight back ...... it's that they have ****** ceos with bad influence."
"one problem which eve has (in my opinion) is that the reality often fails to live up to the hype, especially for players who are attracted by stories of \"epic space battles\" and instead end up running level 1-2 missions for 6 weeks and then never return.i've been fortunate enough to have an \"eve career\" in corporations and alliances which are at a level where i've been able to take part in 1000-man battles, and both capital and supercapital gameplay. many players, for whatever reason, will never progress this far, and thus never really be able to take part in these experiences. i personally believe that this is especially damaging for new players, as once the beauty and thrill of flying a spaceship wears off, the reality of hitting a few buttons in the minimal-interaction activities of mining and mission running quickly burns one out.why couldn't there be new epic arcs introduced, where players could have (a completely pve) experience where they could use a titan bridge, fight with allies, and take on an enemy fleet? wouldn't having the option of helping the caldari navy fight off a group of guristas capital ships be a meaningful experience that would seem especially \"epic\" for many people who want to experience the thrill of \"epic space battles.\"i don't participate in pve content all that much, mostly because it's more of a grinding experience than anything. however, i remember when i first started eve, once the initial thrill wore off, that i was left with a feeling of \"is this it?\" with pcu numbers hovering around the 20k mark, i think it might be time to think of reinvigorating the pve experience, or at least providing around 30-40 hours of engaging, new, content."
"all i heard was profit.#deletetheweak"
"playing eve in highsec when wardeced is not easy (or funny) no matter how good the ceo is, especialy if your corp is made of mostly new players with low skills (like me). to take on an aggressive counter against the wardeccers you need some capacities regardless how skilled or brave your ceo is. it just dont cut it with a handfull of newbies. some of you have listed some options. i thank you for that, as those advice have been most helpfull!i have realized one thing during this boring time of wardecs: eve is about pvp and not about hanging around in mining barges to make som isks. i guess many of you experienced players laugh a little about this, but here is my thought: when i came into eve the very first time (end of may 2016) i had absolutely no idea what to do and how to do it. not unlike thousands of others i guess.when you get your hands on a venture and understand how to use it, a bit of the new world opens up. then mining is what you want to do for a while. at the same time you finish the career agents and by the time gain some good insight, however those contain no word about pvp. then you do som lvl1 missions and shoot some rats. wow! cool. i can do it!then you do that for a while. and you mine. and then you get contacted by a recruiter who asks a lot of questions and before you know it you are in a coorporation. well, that is cool. eve is a mmo. then the wardec came up. most of us are new, a minority is experienced. it was kind of a steep curve to suddenly get wardeced and be forced to do pvp. well, i got shot but didnt shoot any. i have barely gotten into how to shoot rats. the road of learning the hard way. steep learning curves might be the second thing i have realized in eve during this summer. i guess there will be some people just quiting the game because they find it too hard / unplayable. for my part there has been some developments that might be a good road to learn some more.my killboard still isnt much to brag about, but i guess there will be some greens in between the reds by the time . /fly safe"
"seriously - i've been here since 06. the majority of my accounts (18) expire towards the latter part of this year. i do not see my renewing the majority of them. (unless ccp surprises me which i doubt.) eve is changing and ccp is only listening to the power blocks that plague the influence of the csm. barbie dolls in space, oh look, i have a monocle, blah blah blah!i begged pleaded and got on my knees with ccp years back to not develop the csm as it would negatively impact the game. imo it has done exactly that for many years now. too many imbedded vets. everyone pays a monthly sub for each account. they could have simply placed a voting forum for changes ccp plans, then let the paying players vote. not some group of puppets supposedly representing everyone's interest called the csm.back to the real game play,i ventured into lo-sec and null-sec on my own and expected to have my arse handed to me on a platter, it usually happened, yet i also lucked up and returned the favor \"sometimes\".today the visceral attitude towards anyone who plays this game for any other reason than pvp is right down hostile, especially towards the players who wish to remain in hi-sec.ccp has allowed this harassment to continue with impunity. something is wrong when you can take 4 t1 fitted catalysts and 1 or 2 shot a 300m+ isk ship. the ones doing this couldn't 1v1 you if their lives depended on it, but they can cowardly go out and take your 300m isk ship out with a few million isk and 3 more cowards. yet, they call it emergent play.pvp in lo sec is stale w/o much variety anymore.null-sec pvp is dead! currently null is nothing but an isk printing machine for the for mentioned power blocks. you'd be more safe doing a mining session in null than you would in hi-sec. the flip side you have a better chance pvp'n in hi-sec than you would in null.fact- most of my mining sessions are in a rorqual, usually in a few dead systems owned by alliances whom i'm not associated with. people just fly right on through, no attack, nothing. when my alts have filled my hold with abcs i pack up and cyno home.i have alts in a few corps located various parts of eve from null, null npc, lo-sec and hi-sec. no wormholes, though i resided in one a while back for about a year.as my accounts continue to expire i look outside my window trying to come up with a hobby that will replace eve. thinking of taking disc golf back up or maybe start a new apiary, simply build some r/c airplanes to bring back my days of youth.good luck with your gameplay."
"well, that is not the truth. some of the wardeccers might wait, but others will pay a ****** small fee to a freakin agent to get the system and station where youre in. it happened to me. we stayed the hole universe away from our \"enemies\" (why we are enemies to them are not so clear to me). still they hunted us down and gatecamped us. boom!and about staying in a npc corp: eve is a mmo. it makes no sense to stay in a npc for years."
"one of your loss mails was in niarja, so no you did not stay off the pipes between hubs. niarja is particularly bad in that you have to go through it to go from dodixie to amarr and jita to amarr. the other one...bad luck. learn to watch local.although...you didn't accept somebody new to your buddy list did you?"
"since starting up in eve i've been in more than one corporation that has been ruined due to pvp corporations looking for easy targets... so my idea is could corporations that enjoy the basics of eve for example mining and industry etc be allowed to purchase concorde protection much like we do renting a station but we'd pay a monthly sum to concord that would stop pvp corps war deccing those players that are here just to enjoy the game? obviously there would have to be restrictions (would only work in high sec) as other corps would abuse this. i believe alot more players would return to eve knowing they can enjoy this game without fear of been war dec'd as alot of great corp communitys are ripped apart as a result of war decs...."
"the question is: how would you make the difference between a \"normal\" corp and an \"industrial and mining corp\" ?2 words: you can't.thus, you'll have abuse of this system: almost every corp, even larger and largest while (ab)use of this to be untouchable in high sec. there is an easy solution for industrial and miners :- mine somewhere where there are few people in local- don't afk while mining- keep an eye on local and warp off if someone (war target) enters in the system- use an alt out of corp to haul your stuff.solution2: pay for surrender. yeah, looks like living in nulsec, right ? not that far, and that's how eve works. i agree some people may suffer from war (especially new players in corps), but being a carebear / giving miners and indus an unfair advantage against others is not fair (and shouldn't be done)-1 for your idea.esipy - python 2.7 / 3.3+ swagger client based on pyswagger for esi"
"how is game mechanics that allow a player(s) to grief a miner by bumping said miner to infinity fair?how is game mechanics that allow 4 t1 fitted destroyers to blow up a mining ship supposedly built for the rigors of \"deep space\" fair?signed \"care bear\" at least i was accused earlier of being one in another thread."
"griefing isn't allowed in eve so bumping a miner, who refuses to comply with the code, isn't, by definition, griefing. the miner has options. he can leave. he can log off. he can buy a permit. he can get a friend to come gank the bumper. he can get a webbing alt to come and get him into alignment faster. there, see? no infinite bumping of miners. four players working together killing one player? that not only sounds fair it seems like good tactics versus bad. why was the mining ship there to be attacked in the first place when gankers are around? sounds like he wasn't paying attention, maybe even afk. four players killing the ship of 0 actual players seems even more acceptable. the miner should have been playing, and watching local and dscan, not doing the laundry. the people cry for justice, but if you really want to hear them scream... give it to them. by choosing to mine in new order systems, highsec miners have agreed to follow the new halaima code of conduct. www.minerbumping.com"
"as for the op, your corporation was ruined by the inability of your leadership to organize defensive actions and the unwillingness of its members to risk ships and isk to defend themselves. in short, the corporation had no reason to exist in eve as it was unable to protect what it had. one of the basic rules of eve is you only own what you keep others from taking. i know from experience that there are the rare few mining corps who will defend themselves and who can at least justify their existence. the others mainly exist to exploit new players for the benefit of the ceo's who, in every other respect, are incompetent bumblers. being bad at eve is no excuse to ruin it for the rest of us. by choosing to mine in new order systems, highsec miners have agreed to follow the new halaima code of conduct. www.minerbumping.com"
"keep up with that line of idiotic non-sense and you will continue to see subscriptions to eve diminish.cheers!yeah, i know, you gonna say good riddance to the ones who don't renew because they added nothing to the game. i do know one thing they added to the game.... the subscription money paying ccp's bills."
"\"so that there is more time for player actions to determine the outcome\" what exactly is the outcome you expect ganking a freighter if concord responded even slower? do you expect the freighter to engage you with it's thrusters? a hulk engage your fleet with 5 drones? an interon v engage you with it's 2 hi-slots?i mean really, what kind of engagement are you expecting from a industrial ships?pvp much or do you just set at hi-sec gates with 3 million isk t1 ships popping 8 billion isk freighters while complaining on forums about risk adverse players?"
"first off they are 8 million isk ships and second if you stopped over loading your mother fecking freighter this would not be an issue.red frog freight shows what can happen if you are prudent: you'll lose your freighter every 10,000 jumps. assuming the average trip is 50 jumps there and back we are talking 1 freighter loss for every 200 trips. if you use your freighter 1x ever 2 days you'll lose a freighter 1 time every 400 days. and that is the average. it could be far, far less.and ffs it is averse...risk averse, not risk adverse.and ffs stop using risk aversion as if it were a bad thing. we are all risk averse and seek to minimize the possibility of loss.edit:seriously, if you put 8 billion in a freighter you are just begging to get ganked in this game. the expected drop is 4 billion. 4 billion pays for 500 good damn catalysts. 500. if you put 8 billion in your freighter you can pretty much expect to be ganked in short order. you might get away with it a few times, but one you are seen with that kind of cargo that's it. you are going to get ganked.this is what i call being imprudent. irl it would be like taking your 401k and putting it all in 1 stock....and then when that stock goes **** up you sit there and talk about how unfair it all is while it was your own greed and imprudence that lead you to the horrible situation you are in.stop being imprudent and you'll have very little to fear from gankers. put no more than 800 million in your freighter, to be really safe limit it to 750 million. put a tank on your freighter so that it takes more ships to gank you--i.e. make it more expensive. use a scout, if you see lots of hostiles in system, dock up and wait. use the standings function to set various ganking groups red so you can spot them in local more easily. if you really need to move through use a webber, but note that is putting you at increased risk.other alternatives:1. if you are moving small volume/high value items look into a blockade runner. one of the fastest ships in game in terms of align/warp speed and it can fit a covert ops cloak so you can warp cloaked making you nearly impossible to catch in hs.2. if you use a blockade runner use insta dock and insta warp book marks.3. use a jump freighter if you can afford one. jump over gank spots vs. running through them.stop blaming everyone else if you behave imprudently. learn from your mistakes and move on.and yes, i have actually lost a jf, so spare me this crap i don't know what i'm talking about.or, just gtfo.edit ii: and no, i am not telling people how to play i am giving my own view on how to play. you want to stuff your freighter with 8 billion isk worth of goodies....well go for it. but do not come here and complain or i will point out what a god damn mother fecking idiot you were for doing such stupid fecking thing. but...by all means be as stupid as you want to be.but realize the nature of this game is that if you are imprudent there are players who will show you exactly how imprudent you were."
"absolutely correct, it does not guarantee safety, it guarantees a certain group of people with millions of skill points and years of knowledge about eve mechanics come into hi-sec space take advantage of the less informed player with far less experience and far less skill points.\" i can afford to replace my losses easily.\"yup sure can! any time you can take 4, 3 million isk destroyers, to pop a 300 million isk ship. oh yeah... i can afford to do that all day long too! well until there are no more newbs to take advantage of and the servers are closed cause no one is renewing subscriptions to help pay the bills. yup, excellent plan!"
"you do understand the irony of what you are pointing out... right?a couple of characters (that are probably alts with probably only a few million skillpoints)... in 1-2 million isk ships (cheap by most standards)... attacking another player... and netting some profit out of it.that sounds like the most newbie friendly thing ever.it shows you do not need tens or hundreds of millions of skillpoints to achieve something.it shows you do not need hundreds of millions or even billions of isk to achieve something.it shows that you take the time to figure out how to work the system... you can overcome obstacles.as for the rest of it...only ccp can define what is and is not \"harassment.\" and they take it on a case-by-case basis.what do you suggest then?and don't say something along the lines of, \"something of less value should not be a threat to something of higher value.\"eve was based on the idea that even a small, worthless ship can be a threat to something bigger and more expensive.and the reason for this is because the idea of something not being threatened by anything of lesser value works more in favor of older, richer players (see: it isn't \"newbie friendly\").i think you are missing the point. many points in fact.they are not interested in a 1v1. they are not interested in your sense of honor. they are not interested in what you think they should or should not be able to do.they are interested in the simple act of blowing someone up and grabbing what loot they can. that is fun to them. that is the point to them.as for the value aspect itself;a cargo ship worth 5 million isk that carrying 300 million isk worth of goods is still a 5 million isk cargo ship.cargo value has nothing to do with ship's capabilities. this is why many people say \"choose the right tool for the right job.\"hell... even if a 10 million isk cruiser is fitted with 1 billion isk worth in enhanced mods (yes, yes, hyperbole... but i am using it as an example)... it is still a 10 million isk cruiser at its core.it may fly 10% faster, do 15% more damage, tank 50% more damage... but it cannot escape the fact that it is still a relatively cheap cruiser with clear limits on what it can and cannot do."
"shahfluffers,how is being able to take 4 destroyers (t1 fitted) taking out a hull that supposedly was built for the rigors of \"deep space\" mining right? how is what i'm referring to possibly be considered irony? i'm referring to hulks/macks. not something like an interon v. i understand your point if i were talking about a hauler. i myself while using haulers have alts for a front and rear scout on valuable moves. i understand all that. i also understand the hypervigilance needed in hi-sec mining. i personally have not lost but one hulk in all my mining and that is because i dropped drones and miscalculated the timing of them engaging me and was concorded. yes, the whole system had a good laugh, so did i.i'm referring to the ability to knock out a 300m isk ship with a few throw away alts in t1 destroyers. i personally mine in every section of eve with the exception of wormholes and i see far more aggression against hi-sec miners than anywhere. unfortunately the ones code and the like prey on are the newbs who haven't dried behind their ears yet. to me that affects the game negatively because i feel we lose valuable income from monthly subs if the player loses a ship every time he/she turns around simply cause some low-skilled alts of players with years of knowledge on game mechanics in eve decides to pick on someone who can't fight back. that's just cowardly. regardless of what another said about what ccp believes is or is not \"harassment\". i'd find it hard to believe if this were a real life situation and one person consistently showed up in the belt to bump one particular person 90% of the time he undocks is nothing but unadulterated harassment. not a big deal with me as i have quite a few locations to mine, jump clones, several mining alts, various locations that i simply clone jump or log on to do as i wish.my focus is on the new comers that don't have the luxury i and many others who grinded through and maintain and army of alts. their options are limited, join a corporation so they can be wardec'd until they quit. join a corp to cannon fodder/ there are a few corps who actually take care of the newbs however a large number only want a tax number and ore/ice purchases at or below 10% jita price which we all know is a rip.however -the constant direct and purposeful pursuit to make new comers life a living hell in this game is beyond vulgar, it's down right unfair to the new comer as they have no way to offset this aggression other than dock and log. how long do you think that new player will stay in a game where he/she can only look at his/ship in dock?what do i suggest? excellent question -hmm, unfortunately it will never happen. quit preying on the weak newb miner and instead of killing soft targets, try a challenge and go after someone with equal or close to skills. reason why lo and null secs are dying... everyone is up in hi-sec taking the easy targets because they are too lazy or too cowardly to fight someone who might actually kick the living crap out of them. bring your balls.i mean really, for each new player chased from eve is a loss for us all! yeah the player who was able to make the other rage quit, well he's a winner but also a loser as we all are because it's one less subscription helping to pay the bills ccp have to keep this game going.don't think i'm missing any points tbh. i do think many are missing the fact that as they continue this onslaught of newbs and industrialists in hi-sec is having negative affects on the game and why you see so many posts about it. i don't care really for the statistics i keep seeing linked and the excuse people are moving on or summer vacation etc. people are leaving and replacements are here long enough to read forum posts and personally experience the concentrated effort against certain game play then they move on to another game.hope i was clear and hope the wall of text doesn't hurt your eyes.o/"
"nothing can be \"bumped to infinity\" anymore, since ccp introduced a \"4min max to warp\" (not sure about the time, but you get the idea)...what's wrong about your t1 destroyers ? it's game mechnics to be able to shot whatever you want, but suffering the consequences. ok, they'll kill some retriever or whatever you are using, then they'll die from concord. works as expected.you don't want to be \"easily ganked\" ? then use a skiff with tank.remember ccp idiome ? \"risk vs reward\". that's it: take a hulk get plenty of isk but you'll get easily ganked, or take a skiff, tank really more with a lesser yield. you just forget one important thing : space is not safe and never will. high sec is only safer. you are not the only one who's gonna be ganked, even haulers, even missionners, even \"incursionners\" will be ganked, the latter with far more expensive ship than your \"shiny\" mining barges. but the only 2 who cry are miners and haulers because they don't want to assume the risks of what they \"half do\" (half in a way that those 2 activities are more than often done while half afk). it's part of the game, and it's not going to change (and i hope ccp is not stupid enough to change it), so if you don't wanna lose your ship, stay docked. :) esipy - python 2.7 / 3.3+ swagger client based on pyswagger for esi"
"adverse/averse potato/patoto - look up the meaning before going off the deep end sucking and huffing and puffing, please relax.i failed to mention i was speaking just the hull of a jf which usually run close to 7-8b last time i looked, not contents.as for it being 3 million or 8 million per ganking ship, still peanuts compared to the loss of a jf compared to the losses of ganking parties. aren't you special, you lost a jf, proud of you. now try to hang on to that temper.just gtfo. lol at this one because apparently from looking at the player numbers at this point, that is exactly what people are doing."
"since you mentioned looking up the meaning.averse'v<U+02D0>s/adjectiveadjective: averse having a strong dislike of or opposition to something. \"as a former cia director, he is not averse to secrecy\"adverse'adv<U+02D0>s/adjectiveadjective: adverse preventing success or development; harmful; unfavourable. \"taxes are having an adverse effect on production\"so risk averse is the correct usage, and that took me all of ten seconds on google to find out.as for your jf comments you do realise that when used correctly a jf is almost impossible to gank right? there are only two windows of opportunity to gank a jf, as it undocks prior to jumping and if it bumps off a badly placed cyno, and both of them rely on the jf pilot being stupid enough to let his ship become vulnerable. as was pointed out above you also ignored the ability of blockade runners to almost effortlessly evade gank squads when used correctly. are you spotting the theme in what people are saying yet? using the right ships in the right way vastly reduces the risks of gatting ganked and its not like the information is hard to find, again i did one google search that took less than ten seconds to type and i got youtube guides, mittani.com articles, blog entries and multiple forum posts all offering advice on the subject.basically you're wrong, teckos is right, stop being an arrogant dumbass and actually think about what you're saying for a second."
"translation - \"i hate facts, think reality should conform to my expectations and evidence that challenges my worldview totally doesnt count because reasons\""
"you're right and i was wrong about the averse/adverse. thanks for bashing my head in and calling me names. (unwarranted but thanks, simply shows the toxicity towards players.)game still has problems and the inability to speak with people without hostilities and name calling will get it fix. awesome!"
"try not being arrogant and dismissive to everybody you talk to and maybe people wont be so 'mean' to you. i also cant help noticing you failed to address any of my other points, might want to get on that."
"awesome for red frog and what a great example of one of the larger groups of players in eve who are risk averse. when you brag about such shining examples of the very thing you say is hurting the game, well, what can i say. if red frog wants to run a hauling/transportation corporation then they need to put their npc hauling alts in said corporation and play with the rest of us. my point exactly - you make another awesome point here. who's taking all the risk? a broken system that allows a group of people with throw away alts to take advantage of an already vulnerable target with little to no consequence to themselves. short of losing a t1 fitted t1 ship and sec status which means nothing. thanks for pointing out the disproportionate advantages/disadvantages.btw - a 4 billion isk drop would buy a little under 3000 catalysts. but i'm being trivial just to be trivial. however, had i posted this inaccuracy there would have been myriad of posts about how out of touch i am with eve from the little corner of gankers wishing to perpetuate the extinction of any form of resource gathering short of going to null power blocks and mine for them. the reasons are simple, to derail conversations about subjects that force certain playstyle upon others who wish to play differently.imprudence isn't the problem here, it's the disproportionate risk to loss ratio in favor of the ganker,having lost one yourself makes you an expert. got it!btw - very familiar with the use of blockade runners as well as i'm with players wanting them nerfed because they aren't easy enough to gank with minimal effort and cost. really rich quote here, i like it!the gtfo comment, well that is exactly what is happening. dismiss it as summer break, people moving on, other games etc.i'm sure those reasons are partly to blame, imo it doesn't come close to the root problem, in an attempt to avoid anymore name calling and chest beating - i will keep that opinion close chested as it is already apparent within my posts."
"errr sandy you might want to try quoting things i actually said when you try and argue with me, unless you just messed up the formatting and were talking to teckos, in which case thanks for proving my previous point perfectly."
"thanks and fixed."
"translation to yours: i didn't read past the first paragraph because i don't agree with your preferred game play or posts, therefore your responses are invalid. got it, thanks!"
"oh i read it all, i just didn't see anything i haven't been hearing for years already. stop acting like any of your ideas are a new thing because they aren't, they're the same things that have been coming from posters opposed to ganking since this argument first started over a decade ago. i'll even list them for you just to be clear.- 'oh think of the newbies' - 'numbers are unfair'- 'if this was real life' - 'i dont care what ccp says'- 'why dont you fight people that shoot back'- 'gankers are killing the game'none of these things were true back then and they still aren't true now. as for your statistics comments i believe the drop in numbers is far more likely to be attributable to changes in mmo culture and how people choose to play games rather than this one specific thing, dont forget eve is 13 years old by now and general attitudes change over time. its a hardcore, time dependent game that takes a lot of effort to learn and requires embracing a certain mindset to enjoy and general gaming culture is simply moving away from games like that at the moment."
"greetings capsuleers!please enjoy this brief summary of the current csm lead projects being run in lead up to the fall summit. this summary doesn't include anything covered by nda or any projects started by ccp themselves that the csm have been/are involved in, so please manage expectations accordingly.nullsec content creators focus groupcomprised of primarily nullsec fc's and alliance leaders, spearheaded by the judge and jin'taan, the nullsec content creators focus group is designed to bring as many high level nullsec personalities together to focus on one common goal; pinpointing the core barriers to gameplay currently experienced in null security space and to further condense these opinions for the csm to use as points of reference at the fall summit at ccp's hq in reykjavik. at present there are at least 20 different players from all over eve who have expressed their interest in being involved in this focus group, with the possibility for that number to grow as the weeks go on in the lead up to the fall summit. csm members will be moderating this focus group but won't be actively participating in the discussion themselves (to prevent any tainting of opinions).wormholers town hallspearheaded by noobman and moderated by bobmon, gorski car, sullen decimus, the judge and the directors at hard knocks inc the csm ran a town hall focused completely on wormholes. this is just one of many csm initiatives to help members of csm xi focus a clear and concise message to bring ccp at the fall summit in iceland. this town hall took place on august 13th 2016 at 19:00-<U+FFFD>21:00 eve time, giving players roughly 2 hours to present their ideas and concerns to the csm members in attendance. we expected a strong turnout for this town hall seeing as wormholers have a strong identity and camaraderie when it comes to their space homes, and we weren't disappointed with over 130 people turning up to participate. depending on the success of the wormhole town hall overall, it is possible that the csm could form a small wormhole roundtable to continue the discussion from the town hall with the aims of further pinpointing the feelings of the wormhole community as a whole.industrial roundtableprimarily focused on the upcoming capital industrial rebalance and expanding into mining and barges as a whole, this roundtable is still in the planning and invite stages. if you think you might have something to offer for this roundtable please contact either jin'taan or sullen decimus.hisec ganking roundtablethis roundtable is aimed at looking at the mechanics of ganking and how recent changes have impacted players, and how the future bumping change will affect them. the primary goal is to give the csm an understanding of what gankers do, why they do it, and how ccp might look to change ganking in the future.csm quarterly reviewin continuing the \"weekly summaries\" style, the csm will be releasing their quarterly review, bringing together each members personal opinions of their experiences so far this term. this review will be released through the major eve news gateways (en24, cz, tmc) as well as reddit. the planned release date is august 19th 2016.a big shout out to ccp seagull, ccp guard, ccp logibro, the o7 show and ccp as a whole for being steadfast supporters of the csm."
"just a little addendum for those reading, this is both not all of the player-csm interaction we're doing to prepare for the summit, being limited to the larger group sessions we're doing, discounting the many 1-on-1 discussions we're seeking out. and of those group sessions, only those which have been actively kicked off. we have a lot more planned to get underway and i'm sure even more slowly brewing in the back of our heads. i know sullen's been doing some excellent work curating a 'little things' sheet, hyde has been amassing what basically amounts to a full run down of pretty much every module, ship, ammo type and mechanic in the game to write down his balancing assesment of it, bobmon & nashh have been hard at work finding out what can be done to help event organiser and ccp communication, and of course all of us have been taking part in the collaborative effort that is working with ccp when they ask our input, as well as proactively giving input on things that are on ccp's roadmap. personally i'm looking to set up a few more roundtables if the currently planned ones turn out well, specifically on things like incursions and industry.thank you all for your support however, i am glad i've been able to take part in the csm and look forwards to representing the interests of the playerbase in this upcoming summit :)"
"just ask endie : he spent a year working on that very subject, with impressive results."
"any possibility to participate hisec gank roundtable?"
"guests have already been sorted for it. would be happy to do a second one to get the anti-ganker view on the matter at some point however, just don't know how to get in contact with them :)"
"i would also like to point out that none of these scheduled groups or town halls precludes you from individually or collectively contacting us with your ideas or opinions. we are all available throughout our term to hear from you on any topic. confirming that this is my main personal project going into the summit. if you have a balance issue, it's very likely i have it down already; but if you feel strongly about an issue and want to re-iterate your perspective on it to me, please send me/link me your doc/write-up. numbers and justifications preferred over mere opinions. thanks."
"thank you for the csm update... is anyone on the csm is looking at lowsec and fw. i can't seem to find any recent mentions of changes to lowsec and fw. is this on the radar for ccp or the csm? o/"
"gorski carr is our resident lowsec expert, and yes he's asked for a meeting on fw with ccp :)"
"ganker invite only?what a pity.hope eve hasn't become too difficult and hard for high sec career criminals.what would i ever do if they all up and rage quit?if you really are lost in the wilderness on how to contact an anti-ganker,just drop me a line.i might know one ... or two ... extremely experienced people on the matter."
"it might shock you to learn that they're not willing to talk about certain things in the presence of the people dedicated to countering their profession, hence why i intend to do an opposing roundtable. also stops things from getting heated between the two parties, or arguing back and forth over what is 'fair', which doesn't actually achieve anything.plus, that community did reach out to me first, i'd have happily hosted the anti-ganker community first if they'd have contacted me. i'd like to hear about the issues that face your community, and how ccp could make your playstyle fit better in with the game mechanically. note that i specifically ask for problems and not solutions though, as this leads to something that ccp can better use in their future development. saying 'x solution makes our lives easier' is a lot harder to implement than 'y is wrong with the current system, is there anything we can do to solve it?', as they understand the coding already in place and how best to work with that :)"
"-"
"do you think eve needs a moratorium on introduction of new ships? at least for a while. i think ccp are adding those too fast and even i, an experienced and active player, cannot wrap my head around the changes at this pace, while newer and casual players have even more difficulties."
"industry is a big deal in eve, and a lot of people were very happy to meet crius and what was considered a long-awaited first step of its revamp. unfortunately we found out it was the final step. furthermore, one of its pivotal features - teams - was later dismissed.i would be glad to participate in discussions on this topic, but i dont think there is enough consensus in the community at the moment to start a successful roundtable right away."
"you keep using the term risk averse as if it were some sort of slur and actually not a virtue. it suggests you are completely ignorant of the concept. what it means is you seek ways to reduce your risk. you want to avoid the downside to it.it is not risk aversion that is hurting the game. nowhere have i ever complained about anyone being risk averse. in fact, i have defended people being risk averse because it makes the game more interesting, not less.btw, you are so foolish you fail to realize that this supposed slur, risk aversion, it applies to you too.the person taking all the risk is the stupid freighter pilot<U+FFFD>and he does not have too.a catalyst for ganking a freighter will cost 8 million. 8 goes into 4,000 500 times, hence 500 catalysts. typically gank catalysts fit t2 guns, uses t2 damage mods, t2 ammo, and also rigs, iirc if those are t2 also.then don<U+FFFD>t take the risk. overloading your freighter is something you do, not anyone else. if you don<U+FFFD>t like that risk stop taking the risky actions.no i<U+FFFD>m saying, i did something dumb, but i<U+FFFD>m not here bellyaching about it. i looked at what happened figured out where i went wrong, and found a better way to avoid that kind of problem in the future."
"btw, the guy loading up his charon with 8 billion isk worth of cargo is risk seeking. why is he complaining when the bad things happen? he was seeking it ffs."
"14 years in and people are still saying this."
"well, i think if you go around continually killing the same person in high sec, it is considered grieging and therefore a banable offense. high sec ganking... when i spent my high sec days mining, i never saw these code peoples.. i saw the marmites en route selling my mins.. but yeah.however, risk vs reward? you make less isk mining in any sec space than you do doing equivalent missions / anomalies in the space. for the risk, its currently a negative reward unless at the cost of (full) mining boosts ."
"was this an invite only group? or based on a csm member selection process? i know some null-sec fc's that would be very interested in this and could bring some good insight."
"the biggest bug in w space is the core citadel not spawning the correct amount of battleships, it should be 8 and not 2.hence the reduced payout.i enjoy livng in w space as no two days are the say, one day connected to hard knocks and then anohter connected to tdsin, if your really unlucky rolling into the same hole after rolling your static 3 times,but hey thtas w space for you, you can never predict it. null sec is mundane,i prefer the old fashioned dominion sov to this entosis crap"
"thank you for your insight and maturity in your assessment. it is likely that i'll do a general pve townhall pre this summit. it might be useful to do a post-summit industry one, as there's a good chance we'll be in a better shape to understand what ccps plans will be with regards to industry, and shape our questions accordingly."
"war mechanics in empire are ****ed.this needs discussing."
"so just to point outif you want to work on player retention then you have to look at that 85% who quit having done no pvp. as ccp saidwe need more conflict not less, this means a reversal of the nerfs to combat over the last few years and injecting more danger back into the game."
"hey all, just checked this out after ccp seagull mentioned it on last nights o7 show. hope its the right place etc etc..i have been thinking a lot about the ongoing division between play styles lately, read a few old and resent posts on the old high sec vs ganking topic and thought i would try and offer another opinion to the muddled soup already out there.whats clearly needed is a small compromise from all sides, ccp can't do sh*t until the involved parties agree on something.when ccp gets new players into eve, we need to give them a place to get comfortable with the ui, navigating and shooting sh*t so they stay, and then let them head in the right direction for a play style they made a informed decision on.high sec ganking can not be removed, it would make eve b*llocks, but here is also where the biggest compromise is required.so...for the newbro: 1.0 to 0.8. this \"high security\" space should be just that, highly secure space. it makes no sense to new players that they can get blown to sh*t for no reason in high sec just as easily as in all the other lower security systems. there is no real difference other than the attacker looses the cheap ass ship afterwards. what i am suggesting is security in high sec isn't granted fully at first, but earned or lost through in game choices.players with a security status -1.0 or lower should have restricted entry and be bared from docking in or clone jumping to npc stations. if you want to roll a new character to gank with and load it up with skill injectors great, so be it. that's cash for ccp and the ingame economy, but as soon as the security status for that character hits -1.0, concord finds you, blows up your ship and moves your pod, stored high sec clones, high sec assets and home station (if set to a npc one) to the nearest npc station in the nearest low sec system. if you persistently break the law within 1.0 to 0.8 systems, then the message is simple...\"f*ck off!low, null and wh life is harsh and unforgiving. that's what eve is! so high sec consequences should be the same.gankers need to man up on this, stop flogging a dead horse and think about the bigger picture. enough tears and winging. you would loose access to the 3 highest tier security systems, unless you have a war dec on a player corp based in one. these systems already have reduced bounties/mission payouts, high taxes/index costs, disincentivizing poco fees and are primarily filled with learning newbro's and casual or more peaceful players anyway. they play the game too, and contribute to the system in their own way. it's high time this was just accepted.citadels should still be anchorable of course, and player corp holdings and assets need to be attackable, so either concord needs to alow players with a low security rating entry providing they have a active war on a player corp based in high sec. (in this scenario, should a player with a security rating of -1.0 or lower attack anyone other than players in player corps they have active war decs with, they get removed as above and banned from the system for say 48 or 72 hours.) or player corps would have to loose access to anchoring in -1.0 - 0.8 systems. i can only see the former idea working, the later would be horrific for the player corps already bedded into these systems.for the ganker & the bear: 1.0 to 0.5. to counter balance the above, i would suggest having two separate timers to concord response times, the first, the standard timer, with a longer response time than at present giving the ganker more time in effect to do the gank before concord show up.the second timer would relate to the victim and what there standing is with (a) the empire that owns the space, (b) the navy that protects that space, so theoretically if the victim was in a 0.5 sec or above amarrian system and had 10.0 standing with the amarr navy and/or amarr empire, the response time would be shortened to the point that a gank would be futile.this also adds 'a point' to standings again, and would make the high sec carebear have to earn their respite.now i'm sure ccp are aware of this idea and it's nothing new, i suspect it would be hard if not impossible to implement, so perhaps as the standing would relate directly to them, a new faction type police npc could fill this roll, it could use the new ai ccp are playing with, and the current concord response timer could just be extended somewhat.thoughts? ...do try and abstain from the usual finger vomit these posts attract. we of eve are a relatively small community, all sides need to show a bit of respect for opposing views and play styles so we can get on with supporting ccp, new players and playing eve.o7"
"actually, that's not true.i mine daily and i make more than people who rat do. ofcourse, there are different kinds of income. if i compare my income versus cruisers - it's greater.battleships/marauders - it's somewhat equal.carriers - i fall short. but then again, i fly ships worth ~200mil, while those ratting/plexing in battleships+/carriers (not plexing) get more isk/hr by having more tank and higher firepower. but risk more isk if they get dropped by blops/caps.not sure where i've seen it, but apparently only 15% of the pvp action happens outside of highsec space. so why don't you whiney miners just either stop with your afk activities and/or move to nullsec."
"so basically, you don't participate in pve events, but are making a suggestion on how pve should be structured.right. the problem with eve experience is that 99% of the people still live in npc space, without actually seeing more than 13% of the universe. they get bored and leave.but you could always show people how it's like. with your supercapital forces, i'm sure pandemic legion could offer new players exactly the experience you're describing. bridging with titans and what not."
"they were already discussed by the previous csm & ccp according to the available public records. tl;dr : they don't have a clue. apparently, people having clues just don't trust the seals clubbers of the csm."
"i have simple proposal: give us 2 tokens per year which would enable us to have professional and instant help chat with the ccp support officer over the certain in game issue we have at the time. in eve majority of support is provided with help chat channels, monitored and maintained only by other capsuleers and therefore it lacks professionalism and is a place you can get lots of trolling even from \"mods\" which are in fact only other players giving a support for fun or other reasons which may be honorable but as well may not be. from my experience its all good and you will most often get help you need.but there are cases you cant get help or you cant get it when you need it as it is only a public chat channel. in such cases you are only left with eve support ticket system. form my experience that ticket system is far from perfect and response time is least to say horrible. in average i have waited 5 days and more for ticket to receive first replay, but i am sure there is a statistic that will show i am wrong here. i know that on trial account i was receiving instant help with tickets but it all changed dramatically afterwords. now i am convinced that most of us where in a position when 5 hours would feel too long to wait and 5 days are enough to make you wish to quit the game. my proposal is about that situation which i am pretty sure does not happen very often. i know that for my 4 year experience with eve i was only twice in such situation."
"and how would the game know you really are 18+ and permissable for viewing hd adult content?"
"last wreck i left in that plex in g-aoth lasted about 1hour 30 minutes before it vanished off of d-scan."
"i have tactical shield manipulation to 5 and i see no difference than when i had it at 4.never been quite clear on what the skill description actually says."
"i reposted this in a better format. i thought i had lost this. should i earse this?i posted this in another thread. i thought i had lost this. i did it better in another thread. should i earse this?i cant find a suggestion box. so can you pass this onto whome ever it nees to be sent to. can you tell me whom to contact in the future.suggestion. my character to build a deicated container for blueprints;. a small standar container is just too big. i propose that mundi creats 2 boxes, 1m3 & 10m3 size, line them with something that is highly resistant to scan, and make them secuure, audit logs. they should be no way in hell be anchorable. unless you can anchor in a cargo hold.my toon/character is a researcher and inventor/manfactor. so he has the required skills. it may be as easy as cutting down the containers we have now. this has to be approved and coded. i know i am asking alot, but i think alot of our players would like this very much.thanks to the gm that pointed this fourom out to me."
"i think eve is losing pilots more due to other factors then the high sec violence. main reason in my opinion is due to wrong approach to the player community in general and a player as a person. for example we have the great fun fest but poor and unprofessional in game support. as fun fest is a way of marketing and support is not, its enough that they say they don't want to spoil you but in fact they don' t want to spend money on it, its better that it goes in to the marketing. same approach led in to many other in-game changes which resulted in lose of great in-game spirit eve had years back."
"how can one know about these \"events\" in advance. for example, how was the wormhole town hall announced?"
"hello o/i have been playing eve just over a year now, all of it basically fighting for the gallente militia - its great fun.can we please adjust sec status hits for shooting neutrals inside fw complexes? no one has any business being in a plex if you are not defending it or attacking. if i am defending my novice and i see a tuskers pilot in a dramiel sliding in i am certainly going to shoot first because they are not there for the company and i am going to need every advantage i can get! the security status protection inside plex should only extend to pilots engaged in fw.thanks,pete o7"
"personally, i'd ban anyone still in the newbie npc corporations from making wild and inadequate suggestions on the forums. go join a player corporation, do incursions or missions, factional pvp or wormholes, then make some comments."
"the wormhole town hall was first announced by noobman on 2016.07.29 (two weeks before the town hall itself) on the wormhole section of the eveo forums. link:"
"actually, majority of support is handled by tickets outside of the game."
"this is an excerpt from a correspondence with a gm and they said that the forums might appreciate such a thought and if there is public support to such a backing. i chose this forum instead of the players ideas because i think that this would make a great csm represented idea over a player one.customer support: past, present and futureagain this was simply a rough idea i had as i read the devblog and wished to air it further."
"actually, faction warfare space should be free for all as far as sec stats drops go. you should still get shot by gate/station guns, but there shouldn't really be any security status hits when you are defending your space. or attacking someone elses by that matter. or just restrict it to no sec status hits inside fw plexes."
"another suggestion. i have ice mined, and after a while it looks like a snow field. is that ice going to waste. what if we create something like a slavager that collects all that excess ice chips in space. good god i bet you could fill an entire ore hold.just a thought.mundi"
"there is a problem with \"the code\", not honoring your own terms with 'the permit' aspect; is griefing. bumping after being asked to stop, is griefing."
"those that aren't in fw shouldn't have access to the areas of fw; \"the plexs\". camping the ag to one, is fine; it would be no difference in camping a star-gate within the system.they should however, be granted access if they are in a fleet that has 'insert number' of pilots that are in fw and are on the same side.for example, since i am on the gallente side of fw; anyone in my fleet would become a temporary target to my enemy(caldari/amarr fw pilots). while, also suffer a consquence if they shot at me or other allies that are in alliance with me while in the fleet(other gallente/minmatar fw pilots that are in the fleet)."
"neither of those statements are true."
"i am all for legalize it all the way in high sec. dont half arse it. tax it> grant premites for a isk fee.i got a side issue, as worm holes are not hi sec, then can the manufactoring of drugs allowed in wh, including the use of items that are normally restricted to low sec. will the recation and silo work in wh."
"i'm pretty sure you already can?it's not restricted to lowsec. it's restricted to security levels below 0.5 (so lowsec, nullsec, wh)as for why you can't do it in highsec, i _like_ differences between the sec levels. i don't want to add new restrictions to things which already exist, but i'm not for removing them."
"if this should bwe asked somewhere else. please contact me and tell me where i should transfere it to.ther are certain equipement that can only be used in low sec. would this equipent be used in worm hole space. it isnt hi sec or low sec. i think it should be allowed. but if it is. is there code in the game allowing it, or will it have to be aproved by ccp and coded for game play."
"i think of the main idea of a new class, an idustiral capital ship with the suggested portals and ect is fantastic. i also like the nomadic use of it. the extended role of a rorqual is also excellant.. i would like to see this idea talked about more and the council to seriously look at it."
"out of chachter notes/real life comments. this isnt meant for ccp staff, it is directed toward the other players. i ask for their understanding. i had a head injury from the war injury. so my grammer, spelling and even how i look at things, may be off ccenter from the way you look at things. i trying to look at what i wrote 10 times to smoothing it out as i go, adding and correcting, rearranging each time., then i run the draft trough a grammer and spell checker program. please try to take it as it is meant. a humble but serious suggestion. i would not insult you, belittle your iq or other abilities, so please pay me the respect, you would of your loved family member. well onto the suggestion. in character/ as my character. for the pupose of carrying your bpo's and bpc's onto a ship, you normally use a ( small secure container ). i would like to point out the container is way too large. the container is ( 120m3 ) in size and if you want a fast ship. which is part of transport sm,all expensive cargo like this. you cant fit in shuttle and a few othersalo9t of your fast ships are under the 100m3 mark and the fastes is under 30m3 and a shuttle is 10m3.what i propose is to make a speciality container. beside the coiner itself. i will try different scan resistant material to line the inside of the container to limit the effectiness of a cargo scan. it will be a proper secure/audit log container. my toon/charachter has attempted to make a model of his intent. he has taken 3 containers and cutt them down with a weilding torch, and weilded them into a useable version of the 3 containers he wants fabericated by a profesional shop. the containers made to have the blueprints placed either into secured partions in the larger verson<U+FFFD>s or just to lay them into the smaller one.tthe containers are of the following size. one will be ( 0.75m3 ), 2nd will be ( 5m3 ), and the last one will be ( 9m3 ). any of the sizes will fit even in a shuttle. they will be securable and offer some hinderance of being scanned, at least equal to a small secure container. i believe this is a easy solution for the problem. i look forward to reasonable feed back to myself and the council, the gm<U+FFFD>s so we can sunmitte a request to ccp for implemation of my idea.mundi comedentisresearchp.si couldn<U+FFFD>t find a space stated for bp<U+FFFD>s. maybe one of the g.m. can provide that info for me. a artcitect gave me his rough finding of fitting 1500# being easy inside an ( 0.75m3 )."
"would you still feel like it's beneficial to your bottom line when 10,000 other manufacturers decide that it's a business to get in to? when they've pulled the bpc and material prices way up and pushed the sale prices way down?"
"sorry didnt mean to duplicate, so i blanked this entry"
"since a bowhead is metioned and if the other ideas dont get enough interest. then why dont we take a bowhead and give it jump capabilty.. that seem the eastest solution. plus it would give us another ship. everybody knows that we enjoy getting another ship.basically beef up a bowhead design to be able to handle the jump drive and fighter defense capablity, with maybe these slots increase to 3 mids, 4 to 6 lows, 3 rigs (the bowhead already has 3 mids, 3 lows, 3 rigs). as someone else suggestion. i dont see why this ship would need either little general cargo space or no cargo space at all.just a general thoughtmundip.s. as i get used to doing more posting, maybe i will get better at it. thanks for putting up with me expresing myself."
"hello!i recently was able to have a long sit down with several high profile members of the hisec ganking community to discuss the implications of changes that were talked about at fanfest, and the state of ganking in general - with regards to freighters, miners & industrials - as well as the thinking and motivation behind it, and the relationship between ganker, gankee & anti-ganker. this was something that i felt was really valuable in giving us a lot of needed information on the subject, and was incredibly productive, as they answered a lot of our questions in a fair and self reflective way. however, i feel that i need some input from the other side to truly be prepared to address this issue going forwards. as such, i'm looking for knowledgeable people who are able to discuss the issue with me some time in the next two weeks. date to be confirmed with the participants of course. specific people i'm interested in hosting would be representatives from pushx, red frog freight or any of their subsidiaries (especially their high value hauling members) and leaders of anti-ganker/vigilante/etc. communities. however, i'm letting myself be open for applications from all areas on the issue here. if you don't wish to post publically, an ingame mail will more than suffice. i will be looking to keep it small however, as i find this works best for the format of a roundtable.the meeting will be recorded for the purposes of helping the rest of the csm, but will not be made publicly available, and any information shared will be considered a private matter.if you have any other questions or suggestions, feel free to ask."
"i don't suppose we could get a list of who turns up to these?"
"plase forgive my awful english, which might make my language more abrupt than i would like.since you're somehow asking for comments, let's try to express some : eve is a hard game. it's hard for a lot of reasons everybody spends its time talking about. but what makes it even more interesting and unique is also the fact that some players organized themselves to weight in the metagame and bend the whole game towards their views. ccp makes the rules in new eden, players play the game. if someone finds this too hard, she can join whatever organization of players trying to bend the game towards their views. if she prefers something harder, she can just belong to the vast majority of new eden dwellers spending their time simply playing the game whatever the rules can be one day or another.that's why, as ironic as i might be, i think whatever might comes out of this gankers roundtable is of little importance. it just adds a little spice to that unique game. and having some players lobbying publicly for rules changes make sit even more interesting, whatever the consequences might be. nice people will just adapt, whatever comes."
"i prefer to keep the lists of attendees of both these roundtables & focus groups private, as i don't feel it's information that would add to the actual points of the discussion. i do try and keep them as representative as i can though."
"this sounds great. i hope the round table goes well. i'd be willing to be there to help point out the concerns of a pilot carrying valuable cargo but delegates from pushx and red frog would undoubtedly be more qualified. i have never lost a freighter and don't plan to start but i have moved packages of great value."
"could you ask when ccp will tackle the issues? i know that they will bring out the mining platforms first, but the even got a thread last year in the upcoming features section and that it. imho is fitting a ship one of the main features of eve and worst ui ingame.also a guide for noobs how to fit a decent tank would be great. this had been one of my biggest problems at the beginning till i found eft. they got a tutorial video about ship skins but nothing about fitting a ship."
"ghost fitting is coming. (i don't have a date for you, but it's actively having work done on it)as for teaching people how to fit, there are some ideas being kicked around, both from ccp, and from the csm.one i'm fond of (and am pushing) is a number of sample fits in game. teaching by example. they wouldn't be _wonderful_ fits, just solid ones, which take minimal skills."
"thanks for the answer.i don't think that some tutorial fits are enough. this topic is complicated and it's best if you can print it out and use as reference while fitting especially while you are not familiar with all the different modules. so a fitting \"manual\" would do the trick. you need to understand the principles behind the fitting where some example fittings will certainly help. tight \"wonderful\" fit are nothing a noob can use anyway.the best source of information for me was uni-wikis tanking site."
"you know, there are not always two sides to a debate. worthwhile changes are the type that promote highsec aggression, while counterproductive changes are the type that promote carebearism. a carebear, for the purpose of this discussion, is a capsuleer who plays eve like a solo game and spends all his time grinding for isk to buy a plex and bling modules for his grinding ship so he can grind slightly more efficiently for another month.there are still some capsuleers who have actually spent their entire existence in highsec and never even experienced pvp.the csm should do its best to ensure that such a fate does not befall our new players."
"imho one of the problems is the short reaction time of concord. this will almost always prohibit any player interaction because the target or the ganker is dead before someone even notices what's going on. so you have to prolong the timer. to compensate this for the target they needs additional defenses. give e-war and slots to freighters. give weapons and slots to miners. at the moment the whole thing of ganking is to know your target and your timeframe. you can predict very accurately how many cats you need. normal fights have a much greater element of surprise. if you can really fit a ship you might fit it for max cargo/yield or tank or even gank: who knows. maybe they have ewar? good luck with the round table. maybe you should include someone from the mining community to get the whole picture."
"i think there should be a healthy ganking culture. but what is missing is the ability to white knight. i don't know what this would look like but it should be active and engaging, not just hanging around in a cloaky ecm ship. if it could be brought about highsec could be revitalised with quality content."
"one seems to often forget that without the carebears, grinding isk (salvaging, mining, gas harvesting, killing sleepers or other npc rats for their loot and salvage, blueprints, datacores and sundry other necessary items), no ships would be would be built for pvpers to enjoy using. without the carebear, pvpers would soon be reduced to pvping in the ccp funded noob ships with their civilian guns.carebears, ensure that pvpers, not only have the shiny ships they want to fly at reasonable prices, and actually would be even cheaper were it not for code, doing its best to help keep market prices stable by ensuring that the supplies of goods reaching the markets or builders was not excessive.new players, should have the opportunity to ease into the pvp lifestye when they feel comfortable in so doing, not just unceremoniously ganked the first time they undock. that unfortunately leads to a lot of new players giving up when eve certainly needs new blood. new blood, not necessarily spilled at the first opportunity.i am all for blowing ships up, and structures such as the keepstar coming out of anchoring in nalvula"
"still looking for participants here. please try and get in touch as there is limited time before the summit in which to organise this :)"
"hi and thanks for organising this i won't take part in the roundtable - anyone will tell you that i never speak on comms - but i can mail you any thoughts that i have about gank-related game balance, if that would help edit: although if mr patrouette and another friend of mine who is taking part are going to say everything i want to say and more besides, i probably don't need to"
"in looking at old articles like this one"
"i have revised the post i made after the csm x minutes on faction war. here it is again, bringing up the forgotten promises ccp made for faction war: in the end it is about fun wars.what do i consider fun? frequent, quality, pvp engagements. how frequent? i think a faction war players who are fully engaged in sov warfare should be able to get about 10 decent fights in 3 hours of play. it is very disheartening to spend the time to get the isk, spend the time to figure out your fits and and fleet comps, and then you just spend another 2 hours online with few decent fights. good fights happen. but they are not frequent enough, and they often are just random with no context of achieving any sov war aims. what do i think is boring? having several alts orbit buttons ready to flee at the first sign of trouble. yet this is the best way to gain vp in faction war. and vp is the best metric to see who is winning the sov war. so currently, if you really want to win sov for your faction, then get alts out there. what can ccp do to make faction war sov more fun and exciting? they already said they would do it! 1) timer rollbacks:october 22nd 2012 ccp fozzie said:ccp fozzie wrote:<U+FFFD>the rest of the planthere are some other changes to the rest of our original roadmap that we are making after consultation with the community:...we will be attempting to release two new features to the fw complexes that have been suggested many times by the fw community to increase pvp opportunities in complexes: have plex capture timers count backwards to the default state when no players are contesting them.<U+FFFD>"
"these seem to be going well. could we have an evesports roundtable and a low sec roundtable as well please?"
"lowsec roundtable exists under gorski. eve sports would be under nashh but his focus for the first csm is on event organisers/rl community events."
"how wonderful that you, and you alone! get to define just how a sandbox is played! congrats! so, according to your singular definitions, a player who is only interested in mining, fabricating, inventing and building --which is, you know, part of the overall sandbox-- must be some sort of failure because they have no desire to \"pew pew\". you, and others of your ilk, continually bleat that eve is a spaceship versus spaceship killing game. i have no problem with that, as that is a large part of the sandbox. but it is only a part; it is not, by any means, the sole entirety.jin'taan, i would very much like to be a part of this round table.sincerely,albrecht patrouette"
"i'm not alone. the culture of eve is with me.we are not ilk, we are the ruling class.we do not bleat. we preach.you must be an anti-ganker, champion of the afk miner, protector of the botter."
"then stay in starter systems where it's a ban-worthy offense to suicide gank and in npc corps where you can't be wardec'd. when you're ready to be a big boy capsuleer, you can join everyone else in the rest of the game."
"highsec violence is good and it should be happening"
"go back to an npc corp or harden up"
"drop corp and join a fw corp. hopefully someone there will help you have fun. you can make decent isk for a newbie and there's low level pvp content that would be a good way to get the feel for this game"
"why? if they enjoy that lifestyle who are you to 'save' them from it?mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>"
"we are the new order. it is the carebears who cast the first stone. they complained and wrote endless petitions to obtain nerf after nerf to highsec aggression because they were intolerant of non-consensual pvp in a pvp game. they are a vocal minority of players whose response to losing a ship is not learning and adapting but complaining to the devs. they still demand that highsec be turned into a risk-free theme park. they seek to curtail our lifestyle and destroy the game we love.as a result, we strive to ensure that every pilot is exposed to pvp before he is infected with carebearism, and we aggressively attack all carebears in retaliation for the horrible things they have collectively done, unless they are willing to bend the knee, buy a permit and pledge support for the new halaima code of conduct.additional reading:why do they gank?let me tell you why people are killing highsec miners. a manifesto."
"it seams to me that highsec ganking is generating a lot of conflict in highsec. this is evident by the many tear mails we see on this forums and everywhere else. for eve, conflict is indeed the desired content, it is the motor of the industry and lifeblood of the game.every part of eve which creates content will generate tears and people who say it should be nerfed on the forums. the question is, is there actually a problem or is it just people who are not aware of an already pretty good balanced game mechanic? maybe the answer here is education?i know the first reaction to tear post is to assume we need to fix something in the game. but what about all the other parts of the game which create no tear mails and traffic on the forums because they are pretty much dead? if you want to make eve a better game the focus should be on this game mechanics i think. enable the people there to create content for other people since this is what makes eve interesting.no one joins eve to become an afk miner/hauler or to run the same linear mission for the millionth time. think about it."
"the problem is the design of the mining ships and freighters. they are designed to be passive in conflicts. this way of tanking is easily overcome when you know what you have to do because there is no variation. imho the ganking culture deserves to die, because it is bad for the game, and be replaced by a fighting culture. there should be no easy ganks but fights. there should be another way for players that don't actively search pvp then just running. maybe miners can dig in with weapons and some one use shield restoring sentry drones which don't show on the d-scan. or a freighter can actively ewar atackers to keep them at bay. cloaking disruptures that reveal cloakers but need to ankered to asteroids (nope, not for gate camps, sorry )"
"one thing i found a pain was the mechanic that makes ships invulnerable as they undock from a station. having attempted to lie in wait for a suspect / criminal to undock, only to find that they can just warp off before you can even start to get a lock on them. criminals, suspects, and -10 security status should not have the benefit of an invulnerability timer when undocking in low or high sec."
"....because insta-undock bookmarks should be reserved for the law-abiding.....?"
"one way of exacting revenge on code is an indirect approach. gank anyone who pays their ransom and displayes their licence code. i predict code's revenue will take a hit. also for most high sec players it will result in a damned if you do and damned if you don't situation. they will either not undock, or they will turn and fight."
"please don't, they have done nothing to you. you just sound like a griefer who wants to make us and our customers sad."
"and ccp gets the money to hire more people from where?"
"you can already do this in your captans quarters"
"you can use biochemical reactors in wormhole space. besides, pos mods don't really matter now that industrial citadels are coming out in a month and a half"
"the big problem with freighter ganking at the moment is that concord is too powerful.i write here as someone who has spent some time saving bump-tackled freighters and exacting revenge upon the gankers and their loot ships. i see that first responders to a bumped freighter often struggle to do much about the machariel that's typically bump-tackling the freighter and have to wait around until the gank fleet turn up, only then can the defenders use logi, ecm etc. against the gank fleet (but not the tackler). freighters getting ganked from time to time is not the problem, its concord defending the gankers that's the problem, and i'm going to tell you why.while neutral logi may go suspect, bump-tackling ships carrying out the rather aggressive action of holding a ship face none of the consequences of their actions that every single other combatant does. this is the big inconsistent elephant in the room regarding freighter ganking - and its a pretty big elephant given the size of freighters!as the bump-tackling ships are defended by concord, this means that the only players that can typically engage with these machariels are players who don't mind giving away a killright on themselves and losing their ship. because of the killright, the only people who can get involved are those who don't live in hisec but yet somehow happen to be in the same hisec system at the time of the gank, or those who are prepared to create a hisec alt purely to reverse-gank machariels. so we see that engagement with the machariels is limited to a fairly small pool of players, which exacerbates the dps floor that concord's misguided defence places on prospective defenders (if you don't do enough dps to the machariel in x seconds, it survives).in contrast we see a much wider pool of players using ecm, logi etc in an attempt to save tackled freighters. these players would surely be interacting with the bumping ships if those tacklers weren't protected by concord, which shows that concord's zeal is reducing opportunities for player interaction.concord defending the machariels is like the police turning up to a robbery and shooting the person who beat off the attacker instead of going after the thief.as its perfectly possible to module-tackle a ship for hours on end, its completely consistent to be able to bump-tackle a ship for hours on end. ccp have proposed putting a limit on the amount of time for which any ship can be bumped. but as the fundamental issue with freighter bumping is not really the time that people can do it for, but that they can do it while defended by concord, i'm sad to say that ccp's proposal somewhat misses the mark. concord should not be defending important participants in the gank. in fact if concord did not defend the bump-tacklers, then we would find that the problem of freighters being held for hours (if it even is a problem) sorted itself out naturally via sandbox interactions.what can we do about concord's sympathies then? bumping has various uses and consequences throughout the game, so any modifications to bumping in order to fix issues around freighters are likely to have consequences elsewhere. that's perhaps the main positive feature of ccp's 3m warp proposal.however, the existence of other bump interactions outside freighter ganking means that the natural solution of making bump-tacklers go suspect might have too widespread an impact (even if it was technically feasible to decide who is the bumper and who is the bumpee).an alternative change might be to make freighters more heavy, so that the effect of a bump on the freighter's speed and alignment would be lower, and it would take less time to recover from bumps. as this change only affects the a parameter of freighters, it may not have much effect on other parts of the game, which is an appealing property. however it wouldn't address the issue of tacklers being protected by concord so the solution is flawed in the same way as the one that ccp has presented.in conclusion, freighters getting ganked from time to time is not the problem, its concord defending the tackler that's the problem and this needs to be resolved somehow for the good of the game."
"it is not very difficult to decide who is bumping, cause his movement vector is directed at the other ship. if you go suspect after the third bump there will be no problem with accidentally bumping into another ship. or you can even use the bumping timer that the bumper gets the flag after 30 seconds.other bumping actions take place in low or null against capitals where a suspect flag is irrelevant.making freighters heavier will prevent bumping as a game mechanic for ganking, which is imho bad. a suspect flag for bumpers opens up opportunities for player action which is the better choice"
"if you were the ruling class, you would not dodge the every wardec that your bumping alts' corps suffer from like carebears do that you loath. in a way, gankers and in particular code gankers are worse than carebears because you preach water (don't dodge wardecs, fight, stand your ground, don't crap talk in local, and so on) and drink wine (you do not stay in your corps and fight back against wars, your cuck-flood in local speaks for its own). if code was participating in this roundtable, it can't have been all that productive and insightful.suspect flags are also irrelevant in high sec. no one engages a target that can shoot back and even targets that can't shoot back are regularly ignored. i have seen so many pirates and suspect people floating around space (outside jita) that no one engages at all. however, if a freighter goes suspect, you can count on that people flock to whore on it.furthermore and in light of the above, it is not that easy to find out who the bumper is and who not. a suspect machariel (that no one cares about) can just bump a freighter into an immobile catalyst/talos and really quickly we have the freighter suspect flagged as bumper. the machariel can just warp off once the freighter is suspect since no one cares.whatever ccp could do, matters would only get worse especially if crime watch got involved. we have already seen how desperate people are to overcome the limitations of any restriction put in place and the introduction of crime watch to the bumping system would only make matters worse for freighters. this entire feature should be left alone because right now it works: you can easily explain what gankers can do to get you and what you can do to not get caught (which is already stacked in a 3:1 ratio of possibilities against freighters),no arcane and overly easily exploitable mechanics to make ganking overly easy are in place. it requires effort from both sides to do it and to prevent it.the same goes for longer concord response times. you can give freighters a carrier's worth of defenses, they are still just freighters. and player-driven anti-ganking business is neither prevalent enough nor rewarding enough to make it more prevalent. except for (no) appreciation from haulers, you don't get anything from it; and appreciation alone does not pay bills. and again: if you introduced a reward system for anti-ganking, it would be easily exploitable and only make matters worse. right now, anti-gankers can have a fleet ready to kill the gankers (the long response time in 0.5/.6 systems allows for that) once they go criminal and remote repair a freighter. neither is working properly to save a significant number of freighters because not enough people are interested in it -- and never will get interested in it because it is a boring and tedious activity with nearly no action and a lot of waiting."
"an increase to freighter mass could have a range of effects depending on the magnitude of the increase, ranging from making bumping slightly harder, to making it require a full fleet of machariels... i would suggest that any value of mass that made bumping practically impossible would be too high...i have seen many ships go suspect on gates away from jita and get piled on, so i strongly disagree that if bump-tacklers went suspect that noone would get involved. in any case, as go on to say, defending a freighter is tedious because there is so little activity: this would surely change if bump-tacklers were engageable.to defend a freighter you have to wait around and engage almost exclusively on the ganker's terms - i.e. during the same 15-25s window that they are engaging the freighter. damn right that's tedious, and there's no prospect of getting a 10b killmail which is surely one of the motivations for the gankers.imagine then if bump-tacklers went suspect (through some simple and non-exploitable mechanic): the window of engagement for defenders would be longer, as they could choose to engage either the tackler or the gank fleet, and it would be slightly more on the defenders terms, which would make the operation more interesting for the defenders.actually it would be more interesting for the gankers too, as they would perhaps have to decide whether they use some guys to defend the tackler, or perhaps even use cheaper bumping ships (and more of them) to deal with the risk of loss. currently bump tacklers almost always use the optimal ship despite it costing half a billion isk, simply because the tackler is put at very little risk because it is defended by concord. there should probably be some opportunities for play and counterplay there too: does the tackler fit for tank? fit for high dps? or just go for max bumping? and that would have an impact on how defenders would engage.the entire process would be more interesting for both sides if bumpers weren't defended by concord!"
"tank doesn't mean a thing, neither for haulers nor gankers. gankers are risk-averse and would stop bumping altogether, or only bump once or twice, but not the third time to prevent the flag. they can just warp around on grid or to a close-by off-grid spot to get rid of the counter and come back to continue bumping. instead of making it more interesting for defenders, it would just remove bumping altogether. not that bumping was necessary in the first place. in the past, people just scanned freighters, followed them and engaged them when they wanted to warp off (slow aligntime is slow) or were approaching the gate, completely without bumping. this focus on alts for ganking, however, has seemed to make bumping necessary so that non-isb'd alts can do that job of actual people."
"the introduction of npc corps for dodging wardecs is one of the nerfs i was referring to earlier. once a mechanic exists it is foolish not to use it. imagine a bumper who loses a machariel because he didn't drop his wardecced corp and lets the freighter escape; or an anti-ganker who loses his falcon in the same way. they would be ridiculed. nonetheless, we believe that npc corps should be removed completely for everybody. as far as dodging wars, the purpose of the code. alliance was originally to attract wardecs. our agents are among the politest and most respectable people in new eden because we need to set a good example for the unwashed masses.your second paragraph was pretty good."
"so... when is pl resetting ncdot?it's easy to discuss about how other people dont want to risk their assets. but when our own assets are in danger, we're all risk-averse. (sure it doesnt have anything to do with me, i'm exceptional.)"
"the guys who invented eve, you know ccp........ they are the descendants of vikings.good luck on convincing them raiding defenseless or less powerful targets and looting the remains is not a preferred way to interact with others.they like it.they encourage group activity, not solo, thus a pack of gankers flying in cheap destroyers can take out a single pilot in a huge expensive freighter.they make profit when your ship is exploded and you have to replace it, it's their business model. they have no interest in balancing defensive capabilities versus offensive capabilities in any consistent manner. thus a freighter has no ability to carry a weapon but a tiny rookie ship one percent of it's size can.reality is ccp likes the game the way they want us to play it, not the way we might want to play it. once you reconcile that inescapable fact you can perhaps still find enjoyment in ways ccp will tolerate.a combat pilot must have two goals to survive, #1 get the first shot in every fight , #2 get the last shot in every fight!"
"this is not a viable option! imho wardeccs should not affect players (aka accounts not toon) <2-3 month, subbed not plexed, and without any kills. if you kill someone you are a free target. it should also only protect industrials (no freighters, if you can finance a freighter you don't need any protection) and mining ships. these people need to get on their feet to be fun to fight with. taking candy from a baby doesn't show good pvp skills.droping the corp should imho never be an option because the corp is the focal point for social interaction. dropping corp should not have any beneficial effects."
"someone liked this post.i just want to point out that above, a new player claims that it is not easy for corps of new players to deal with wardecs.please, everyone, ignore that and think for a second.a new player completely lacks the knowledge and experience to judge about that.do not, ever, believe anyone who tells you that you can't do something.it doesn't even matter that he's clueless and doesn't know better.just. don't. believe. the. wimps!there's a shitton of literal failures and losers out there who will constantly try to pull you onto their level.whoever reads this:ignore them if you can't hurt them.and if you can hurt them ...... then make sure it's a lesson that sticks.and ps: kill anyone who supports carebearisms in the name of \"new players\"."
"interesting that no actual lower security space drug manufacturers chimed in against allowing this to happen in high sec now that it is legal to use.the proponents of keeping it restricted are using the same worn out tired refrains that resist every change proposed, \"it will destroy the economy!\", \"it must be preserved as a perk for low/null sec inhabitants!\", run, hide, change means the sky is falling!honestly on this issue i expected better.why we keep thinking that in order to force people to inhabit low sec and null sec we need to keep giving them \"special privileges\" mystifies me, what is the einstein quote? \"doing the same thing over and over and expecting a different outcome is the definition of insanity.\"i lived in low sec, the blood pumping rush of the instant danger is what made it desirable for me. undocking and rolling the dice against pilots who are usually better at combat is a challenge you choose to accept because it improves your own skills with each brutal lesson.the \"special\" stuff you can mine or build helps with the cost of ship and implant replacement but they are not the primary attraction.one day i hope someone in power embraces the time proven fact that you can not manipulate people into taking risks until they are ready to try it no matter how many shiny perks you dangle. high sec is the most densely populated region because most people want to undock, take care of their business, and then perhaps afterwards roll the dice for risk and excitement when they are in the mood or with a group of like minded people. it does not make them bad. if they were encouraged by better more effective offensive and defensive technology that made them think they'd be more then just cannon fodder for combat experts they'd likely do it more often.low and null sec aversion is combating perception more than reality, successfully eluding an attack, or making a good fight out of losing to a better pilot is what makes you want to continue to return. the instant pop, followed by some juvenile ranting in local about what a great warrior he is because he and his squad of equally juvenile friends killed an unarmed vessel is what turns pilots off about returning.a combat pilot must have two goals to survive, #1 get the first shot in every fight , #2 get the last shot in every fight!"
"#1 guess i am not as afraid of competition or change as you sound.#2 guess i think your predictions are not fact based, more likely ignorance and fear based.#3 everything i have done to earn a living in new eden is being done by countless other pilots already, i am not scared of a bigger market.#4 nothing stopped pilots from entering drug manufacturing today or yesterday those who want to will, others will not.#5 if more people get into drug manufacturing that means more people will buy the components to create drugs, which in turn also could mean gas mining will become more profitable.#6 i look for the opportunities change creates instead of crying about whose possible fiefdom it might infringe upon.#7 guess i was hoping someone on the csm could be a positive agent for change on this subject instead of just going with the popular meme of protecting the status quo at all cost.a combat pilot must have two goals to survive, #1 get the first shot in every fight , #2 get the last shot in every fight!"
"not all change is good, and accusing your opponent of being unable to adapt isn't a valid argument towards a proposed change.changes should be evaluated based on the good of the game, which as a user of these forums you may be surprised to hear do not revolve solely around the needs of hisec players.do you have any solid arguments that this change would be good for the game at large, rather than just make your drug manufacturing operation risk free?"
"you are attempting to create a straw man argument. nothing in what i said or proposed created a risk free drug manufacturing operation. your straw man fails.solid argument, an expanding market is indeed good for the entire game. more drug products being created by players, mined by players, consumed by players, in more facilities built by players in more areas of new eden is the definition of good for the game.gas needs to be obtained from gas clouds, where they spawn is not a part of what i am asking the csm to modify, so your risk free argument is just plain factually incorrect.a combat pilot must have two goals to survive, #1 get the first shot in every fight , #2 get the last shot in every fight!"
"make missions pvp based. go to x system and help in the battle there. if you kill ships your side will win.however a pilot on the opposite side is also receiving the same mission...rework the \"donating lps\" mechanic for i-hubs. another idea that promotes just farming lps and not working for the greater good (paying lps without any benefit for yourself).rework the \"tier\" mechanics. they're terrible as they are. they discourage joining the losing side. get rid of them completely.make pirates and awoxxers illegaly attacking militia members lose standing with the militia of the pilot. it's just stupid they can go and dock into caldari space for example after killing pilots fighting a war for the caldari. it's like allowing free access to terrorists on your own military bases. they're the only ones that shoot both sides of the war but still can dock in every station in the war zone. that's stupid.don't allow anything but t1 non-faction frigates in novice plexes, but halve the rewards they give. they're called novice for a reason. if you can lose ships worth 20+ million you're not a novice anymore, while the real novices get stomped all day long. you expect to fight other novices when you warp there."
"list of faction warfare change suggestions and notes i have collected. trying remain a little impartial. this thread will probably fade away like all the others.timer rollbacks - timer is reset after a period where no offensive ships have used the timer. saves defensive ships having to sit in space undoing large timers. harsh punishment, may encourage over blobbing just to chase people away, may making defending too easy. dual timers - race to complete your factions timer. could make defensive plexing more like offensive if npc's spawn for each timer. could be scaled to four empire warfare. reduces gunless stabbed def plexing. defenders can no longer run up extra time. makes offensive plexing easier and defensive more time consuming due to npc's. increase pvp lp payout to max tier payout level. pvp lp rewards are low, system is not defraud-able at max level so setting to max will only improve pvp sustainability. concerns over insurance ratings and whether system is not game-able. reduces impact of tier level, could make fw tier mechanics feel pointless. make all timers spawn rates and rewards for plexes the same as novices. this may seem counter intuitive to make plexes the same but the key here is that in plexes are used for fighting, players that roam in larger ships have simply made a choice to do this in larger ship types and they are likely to rack up some lp sooner to put towards ship costs and are not stuck in one place for extended periods of time if nothing is happening. here down shipping to farm gains very little as the rewards are the same but the dps entry is higher. reduces rewards for larger plexes as scaling means larger plexes pay more for the time currently and proposal would require more travel for the same reward. warpcore stabs go offline on gate activation or ships with warpcore stabs cannot activate timers. less farming in non pvp combat ships. may affect overall war zone lp levels. may make warzone more static. entering complexes gives suspect flag to non militia pilots. allows fw members to keep positive security status when plexing. completely innocent bystanders in faction fit pirate frigates may get ganked on the warp in when accidentally wandering into faction warfare complexes. corp lp tax rates. allows corps to recover income from members. may require significant overhaul of lp store mechanics. part of defensive plexing lp returns to ihub. reduces defensive plexing reward, may make systems easier to take. gated large complexes allow for greater use of battlecruiser and battleship class ships. starter complexes. t1 frigates only. shorter timer, easier plex may appeal to new players. may fragment small ship plexing players further actually reducing pvp opportunities. players may still be prey to players with high sp and significant isk invested in faction mods. roaming npc combat patrols adds extra immersion to warzone may disrupt fights on gates. remove high sec npc's highsec mechanics would require complete overhaul. stations and gates could have beefed up npc's to reduce camping. may encourage highsec gate and station camping. less safe highsec may really only affect newer more vulnerable players. may put players off being in faction warfare. highsec may need some form of plex target or landmarks. faction warfare missions - overhaul could be linked to occupancy, formats could be changed to allow more pvp focused fits. may affect certain levels of income and therefore affect pvp at other opportunities."
"except it totally is. if you stop sheltering newbies and explain to them that you are going to get ****** by wardecs they'll either move out of highsec or be smarter at avoiding them. sheltering new players does not benefit the game."
"well good luck with this, until it's sorted its quite simply good bye new players!i tried a considered and what i though interesting and impartial post on a possible solution but it got nowhere."
"this is an interesting point of view - why would certain ships continue to be built without much defence in such a dangerous world?"
"the skiff has today basically the stats of an heavy attack cruiser which can still mine at the same time. and yet miners are still complaining. if they get yet another buff they will probably be used as combat ships..."
"i should absolutely be in this ...... and someone verbally capable from code should definitely a part of this as well.paranoid loyd should be in here just as much."
"yes, we need to get rid of those who want to impose their playstyles on others.you.the first golden rule of eve ...... you consent to pvp when you click \"undock\". you lost.go.away."
"those tears are incredible. it almost makes you wonder what the story is behind them.apart from that. no, you should not be able to produce drugs in highsec."
"hi, wondered if there was a update on something from last years summit regarding the npe. specifically on the topic of rejoining your starter npc corp if you leave a player one?"
"i would also like to know about this, +1."
"right, i'm all for more opportunities and player interaction. i don't see anything wrong with your ideas. let's make this happen!"
"nah, i'm not going anywhere, but thanks. perhaps if you could read you would have noticed i have never said ganking should be removed, nor would i wish to impose anything on anyone; ...but this is not the place for a argument dude. you clearly win with your highly positive attitude and intellectual prowess.if we can get and keep new players, ccp will have more revenue, thus allowing faster and better content. do you really want to wait another handful of years before we get things like player built stargates and other overdue or potential features? i would like to speed this up a bit if possible and that is my sole intention. there is no way for a confused and bamboozled new player in a venture or retriever to counter a gank! that's all i'm trying to address here, and kudos to jin'taan for attempting to get info from 'all' sides and relay it back to ccp.so lets help him, not hinder."
"i think ganking is part of the game but at the moment its a bit too easy. it would be nice if you couldn't buy your security status back anymore to add the grind (penalty) back for people who choose that play style. if you want to gank full time then you're going to have to run missions and rat belts just like before or be stuck to null and low sec. there were many times in the past when i still wanted access to high sec but would pirate and gank, it makes you choose your targets instead of just killing every little thing you see. the tags could probably even be left in game as long as you were not able to trade the item making the person that needs them to go out looking for them."
"i like this.i'm all for retaining new players.to me the solution is easy and obvious as long as enough people work together.i still have a thread to make, to finish the series.my thoughts are more about social development and effects of things ccp throws at us.they've posted the eight golden rules recently for this for a good reason!"
"meaningfull pve - on a scale that matters - does not and can not exist and putting it in quotes doesn't change anything.please use the appropriate word instead of abusing one that doesn't fit.it can only exist for those who want to believe their pve activities matter to anyone ...... but that is just in their heads ...... because no one else gives a damn.nothing you mentioned gives a meaning to pve whatsoever.what you are saying, though, is that pve is boring and should be made more interesting."
