"eve is constantly changing, and players need to move around with their fited ships, because they want , or maybe they were forced or it's their way to play the game. to fill that lack we need a ship to move around our fited ships, we are using capitals for that but the ideal would be something like a bowhead with jump capability, maybe a tech 2 version of it ... or a new ship . some simple ideas about it: - make it use much more fuel than a jump freighter (be expensive to move, but less then repackage a full cargo of ships) - jump range between a jump freighter and a capital. - very low cargo hold space - same price range of a jump freighter - maintenance bay space between a bowhead and capital - military type skin ... or skins (not yellow)"
"noyou obviously haven't considered the issue of power projection.so, no"
"if it could only portal industrial ships it would make it perfect ;)(so it's not abused by oh so many combat fleets)"
"so you mean a giant storage ship with a jump portal generator . ithink this is a superb idea and with some refinement could be benificial to loads of roaming groups out t"
"yeah that is basically my idea."
"i don't think it would need to have this limitation, you just need to set it at a price point that makes it balance out. also activating the portal should give you a 1 min weapons timer to prevent redocking etc."
"when i said faction i meant serpenteis angel etc it would fill in some plot holes for a start , like how do these guys get there ships ? they hardly buy all there supers off others not logical .they have to have a secret mining wing out there somewhere no my suggestion would be another t3 miner like a step up again from the exhumers would be a startso an example is the t3 serpentis exhumer the \"miner\"no tank bonus to ore mined and imune to bubblesor something special to make them stand out from the crowd"
"...and the mining lasers could also use antimatter lenses.sma could field fleets of them.unstopable.unlimited power!"
"yes , you right about that. but the move of ships is already being done but with other ships, carriers and now dreadnoughts and i think big alliances already have that power. isn't possible to get a balance to avoid being used very often, but only when really needed . i'm not talking about a ship that can carry a bs fleet everyday during a week with the same pilot, maybe give a high jump fatigue, a ship that would be better to move fitted ships for someone who doesn't want to train capitals with all required gunnery or drone skills for someone who doesn't want to train for a capital just to move ships but likes to move to different regions from time to time, without needing to repackage every time his ships, there are a lot of different players,for sure there are also nomads in eve.i'm asking opinions and if possible how could it be done."
"i really like the idea of a ship that cannot be easily used to empower military fleets, but rather encourages new opportunities to far-roaming more-or-less-industrial fleets, while still offering great rewards to those highwaymen succeeding to track one down.if indeed the ship is limited to transporting industrial vessels, it could aswell be granted some special abilities around cyno + bridge + wormhole interaction without making that an overly oppressive mechanic."
"allowing a rorqual to use a jump portal generator to jump industrial ships would be cool"
"were you informed early about the reward structure of the new events? what were your feedback? is it an experiment to see how much \"autist\" players are willing to go or actual serious?"
"as a ganker myself i do tend to partially agree with the op, while we are being hammered by ccp in every way, ganking gets harder over time and we find new ways but... i personally dont do it for tears of new players but there are a lot who do it simply to harrass new unsuspecting players. so saying that ganking benefits the market in anyway is just plain bs.. ganking is a form of harrassment and it is there for ragers to blow steam that is all. no market and no benefit to eve whatsoever.here are a few thoughts:i dont agree with empire space 100% safe, i do agree that it needs to be a lot harder than what it is right now. ships that are capable to suicide gank should be nerfed and brought in line, making it a lot expensie reduce concord response time to be a lot quicker than it is. 10 seconds in 0.5 sec space and about 3-5 seconds in 1.0 giving gankers less than 10 seconds to gank. this would require a lot more ships to gank, making it harder and more challenging and more fun to gank.concord needs to deal simultaenous damage to all gankers at the same time, including drones."
"wait, what? it is already impossible to solo gank most ships under the current times. why should solo and afk miners require a huge group of players to kill? it is already unprofitable, and if you make it so that it also requires massive groups, it will just not happen. any gankers that can form groups will just go after profitable ships like freighters, like they already do. if you half the concord response time, you will just raise the minimum value worth ganking from 5b or so to 10b+. how is that more engaging or better for anyone? it just makes players more complacent before they cross some unseen profitability line and lose 15b worth of stuff in 10s. the usual case that is made is that concord response time should be slower (with a corresponding buff to ehp or whatever so fights last longer) so that there is more time for player actions to determine the outcome of a fight. if you made it so short, there would be no time for anyone to react which would just reinforce the feelings of helplessness. personally, i think long-term ccp should look to replace/rework concord with something else. a system where players can easily defend themselves, but actually have to do something to fight back. maybe something like the upcoming rorqual \"force-field\" which all players can highsec get to give time for them to call for reinforcements. sure, at the end of it concord can still vapourize the aggressors ships, but at least something that provides a more interesting, and player-driven mechanic than an npc-enforced dps race to explode ships in highsec. new players have to learn that eve is a pvp game sooner rather than later - shooting them is not harassment. bubble-wrapping them from the real game isn't going to do anything other than give veteran players a way to grind in safety and wreck the player-driven economy. these players will be more likely to leave when they suffer their first loss if it happens later and costs them much more than if some miscreant pops their venture at day 30 in the game."
"i'm a relatively new and i think that ganking is a problem, but imho not the worst one.1. make the career agents mandatory! you can opt out but with a strict warning.2. fix the fitting tool! fitting a ship is a mystery to new players and because you can't play around with it, there is almost no way to really learn how to except to find some outside web sites. give them some fittings with reasons why this ship was fitted this way.3. bring evelopedia back! if just one game need a manual it's eve.4. make it possible (optional) to trade from and to a ships cargohold. when you are collecting modules for your ship it's frustrating to forget them in station.5. give a warning if some trade gets you into low/null."
"the same patch should also include the ability to sell the drugs to concord, so i dont need to risk interaction with other players when i am selling the product."
"link:"
"no, this would not be desirable. it is an important industry advantages that lower security spaces possess over highsec."
"i agree with zappity on this.and it's covered in the forum post about the change. the only corp with a license to do it (iirc) is x-sense"
"i would suggest making the same or similar post in the assembly hall. the current csm members all have their own primary constituencies, but we do care about all facets of eve. i promise, you will be heard (if you post in the right section of the forums!)."
"thread has been moved to assembly hall."
"i suggest a slightly different approach:improve level of interaction that is possible with unpiloted ships. if all of the following options are made easily accessible and reliable, your problem is solved while making some boring stuff interesting, and equally opening and closing windows of opportunity for third-party interference. so you want to throw out a ship out of that npc station unpiloted? go ahead, your ship! so you want see an estimate of when a ship floating in space was last piloted? your ship scanners are awesome! so you want to force this unpiloted ship through your jump bridge? allright, no pilot = no control overrides! so you want to want to setup cloak and self destruct before evacuating, so in case you dont make it back, nobody can have it? sure, you are still the captain! so you want to bump this unpiloted ship into your favourite wormhole? now this is podracing! this looks like a nice ship. i will take it. oh, i found some insurance contract informations lyring around here. i wonder how they could be used for profit. this is a huuge contract package you got floating there. i wonder what happens to your collateral if i damage the foil."
"i'm not sure i see the issue with the current system. want to move fitted ships? use a capital, supercapital or bowhead?since the deployment of jump fatigue i have even promoted the use of bowheads being bridged through a titan to move masses of fitted ships quickly to a deployment zone. i understand that isn't viable for every person, corporation or alliance, but it does exist and people with access to use it.moving away from the moving of fitted ships, the ability to use the bulk fitting tool mitigates a lot of the issues i see alliances run into for deployments (which is from my view point the largest use for something like a bowhead or jump freighter moving ships quickly). you can fit the same amount of ships in seconds that used to take hours. sometimes if you need to move quickly you might need to accept losing your rigs and repackaging to be able to use a jump freighter.giving people effectively a bowhead with a jump drive is definitely something i personally would call \"bad for the game\". i, for one, would champion against such a ship, not for it."
"hello, team.due to this thread, and based on the support ticket advice by gm bianca, i decided to propose here the idea of corp hangars in citadels.considering the outcome of pos gameplay in nearest future, corporations lose one of the most interesting feature: the tadition of common economics and \"corporation solidarity\". these features are provided by only the nature of pos' hangars. for a long time pos gameplay allowed corps to solve problems together, as to hold the responsibility together.the weakness of corp hangars, just like the opportunity to cooperate (to put, to take out stuff) - are the beautiful part of pos gameplay.so, this tradition could be continued in citadels, by giving them the feature like \"corporative hangar\".i have the petition, involving eight capsuleers.--- the petition ---capsuleers of forbidden dockyards corporation are signing the petition in order to:ask the ccp developer team to add the functionality of \"corporate hangar\" or the same functionality to citadels.in cause of removing poses from the game, moreover by adding citadels - there are no functionality in citadels like pos corporation hangars.please, add it to the game.petition signers: 8 personskris galeon, roman krylov, vvv hamu, shurik xan, dmitru savrasov, otherworldiy. damilaska ichinumi, eva pride.--- end of petition ---sal askiras in linked thread proposed the extended abilities of \"new hangars\" gameplay: by adding access list. i would not comment this issue, but it could also be.please, take this into consideration. not much developing, but a lot of gameplay.best regards, kris galeon."
"this thread has been moved to assembly hall."
"i seldom respond to topics but i felt a strong need to respond.why is it the casuals and carebears always complain come in and complain and change games.several mmo's have gone from very good to wastelands due to politically correct carebears and casuals .first if you dont want to be here dont.2nd this is a pvp game with pve elements.third and finally if you take most of the hi sec risk out and hold hands and make it a 30 day investment to fly titans the hard core old timers will all prob quit.this is a game of time skill and spreadsheets.not a game of instant leveling and hand holding.i for one am sick of the casual carebear crowd ruining every game ever in existence just to socialize you wanna socialize go play my little pony online.also i can see this being removed by the politically correct because i may offend someonewell i'm sorry but it had to be saidthis is a good game and its only that a game."
"umm, corp hangars exist in citadels? you just need to rent an office, just like in a station?"
"k. thanx. so strange that gm bianca did not adviced this.by the way, it was not obvious possibility.close this topic, the problem is solved."
"it sure is. \"schr<U+FFFD>dinger's missile. i dig it.\" ~ makari aeron"
"kal, you aren't hurting anyone's feelings or offending anyone so stop with the appologies.carebears, and casuals are already leaving the game in record numbers along with some vets that don't really agree with the changes or have real life things to take care of.the carebears and casuals that do stay hang out in npc corps. nothing wrong with it, everyone enjoys the game how they choose to enjoy it.the games you are talking about that have gone to waste lands are? i'm just asking because i did play uo for 3 years (still play on a shard from time to time with friends). eq for 4 years, ffxi for 7 years, ffxiv for 4 years, guild wars for 3 years (talk about a pvp oriented mmo). lineage ii for a couple years. lots of other mmos out there but usually they died because the devs couldn't keep up with the hardcore players and provide them with enough content. this is the problem with a game has dev driven content and not player driven content.the spreadsheets alone usually drive off players, i've tried to get a few friends to play over the course of many years i've played. some of them just couldn't get past the learning curve. others did and went off to do other bigger and better things in the game only to quit when a change came out that they didn't like.a game is only as good as its player base. if the player base is obsessed with harassment of other players. most players will leave a game because it isn't fun to them. those that are doing the harassment have fun until they get harassed themselves or run out of people who are easily harassed.this this after all a sandbox and players consent to pvp by simply undocking from a station. there are many things that are broken or missing in this game. some players want it to remain as is because they are getting enjoyment out of it, others who aren't participating much in it see the problem but don't feel a need to make changes to it because it doesn't effect them. the last group is the group that feels they are getting harassed by the first group.honestly i'm glad there is a war dec system in the game, i just believe it needs to have more added to it and needs to be modified to create more dynamic content. currently right now all the war system has is pew pew. why not add in economic war fare? toss in the ability to charge a tariff on a target, or give the ability to pay off a faction to not allow a war target to dock at their stations? or why not give the ability for a corp to pay off a faction and not allow a war target to jump through a gate? lots of possibilities that haven't really been realized that could provide so much content and so much conflict. it would allow some of these big \"indy\" corps that have no experience with pew pew to fight back. it would allow rich corps to smash competition in an area. you could end station games, create ways to blockade high sec systems from a select group. thousands of possibilities.the more content you have and the greater the interaction with players new players have the better your or anyone else gaming experience will be."
"you do realise, that there's other parts of space as well in this sandbox? you are not segregated into high-sec. go out, low, null, wh and the problems simply go away."
"a specious argument to a far more complex problem than many care to admit.ccp continuous efforts to 'improve', the game are failing to attract and hold new players in numbers that outweigh those that no longer play the game which as an aside is of greater concern than a constant stream of so called 'carebear' tears, i really hate that term tbh as it degrades the contribution that that facet of the player base actually contribute to the games health overall but why do they feel that way in the first place.this is were the crux of the problem is in the opinion of many, expectation, when i joined eve in it's original beta form the game was attractive to me because of it's complexity, the famous vertical learning curve cartoon still makes me chuckle because it really did epitomise the game as it was then meaning you really did have to spend the time and effort learning how it worked, even getting out of the station was not obvious to many and simply moving around the place, unless you were very astute meant that you required the help and advice of others and your experience there often set the mould for your future in the short term in eve.career prospects in the game came next on the list, i can move around but what do i do with this new found knowledge and it was very simple to trip onto the easy track and start mining, it gave you isk built your bank account and gave you time to sort out eve, at that time in the three years i did it i never got ganked once in lonetrek, even when i moved to mission running, the same rules applied, i used what i had taken the time to learn and avoided getting into problems, 5 plus billion later i moved into null sec and never returned to empire with that toon again.the thing is that it took time, not only to learn the mechanics of eve but to build the confidence and experience to use those to your best advantage, since then ccp has made it plain they want to reduce this workload and tbh it has not been in the best interest of players, that well meaning helping hand from the devs has meant that players do not have the time to gain that experience, learn how to play the game and worst of all not had the time to fully understand that eve is not a nice place even if you do follow the rules, it can at times bite you just when you thought things were going well.i don't have an answer the ganking issue, if there really is such a thing in the game, but i do know this much, what ever course ccp are currently on, the player base is having a problem with it, admit it or not, overall there is less reason to join eve and stay, and of far more concern is it is far to easy for players to find they have nothing invested in the game and leave than it used to be in times past."
"you can do that already with every jump capable ship except jump freighter and rorqual to some extent."
"1.0"
"i know ccp wants to work on removing the in game browser, but this is going to make life difficult for those of us who rely on tools such as siggy and tripwire. i know ccp wants to push crest forward, but i was thinking of an idea...what about just setting up a shell, and integrating the most recent version of the chrome browser in game? be it the mobile or desktop version. it would fix ccps issues with updating the browsers, as that would be handled by the chrome team (and chrome won't change their apis and backends to break it in game, so it should be a lot easier to \"update it\" as needed.what also works, is that it makes devs that need to use out of game tools have an easier time, as they can interact with the chrome apis (which siggy works perfectly well on, out of game).maybe this is a good \"middle ground\" solution for the in game browser removal?"
"more choices."
"you are very correct. there is a problem with ganking/griefing that leaves no recourse to solo/small corps. i have been to null/wh/low-sec and died there. that is to be expected and i enjoy that aspect of the game. but due to recent experiences with a single character in high sec that left me with no options over and over. i have gathered the individual did it for the lol's. as many i guess who play solo/small corp i do not have the time to invest in a large corp, that's how i enjoy the game, solo and small corp, but due to griefing, i can not enjoy playing the game. the way i want to, due to another player. i have lost more ships than i care to count in wh's and low sec, that is the risk/reward that makes eve fun. not getting ganked data mining in high sec for lol's. ganked just for being in system. butt-hurt.....maybe. buts i refuse to cower in station waiting to do pi until the douchebag leaves. so i chose not to play. i will take my money else where. since it is becoming a larger issue than ccp cares to admit. i too have added my name to those leaving eve for its failure to address griefing/ganking to the point of harassment"
"in the end the real world market will dictate how the game is played. if eve can not attract and hold new players that equals no new subscriptions, a loss of future revenue . if eve can not hold on to existing player base a loss of current revenue. then the game will have to change whether those who drink cups of care bear tears every day like it or not, change will happen. care bears the soloists, indy's don't like constantly getting griefed, then who will the griefers grief? this game runs on dollars, euros, pounds, francs, guilders, krones, pesos, dinars, and rubles, not your ability to gank every living thing in a high sec system. change or the rl market place will change you. for better or worse, money will do the talking......"
"eve is special. things like scams that would get you instabanned anywhere else are part of the game.where eve imho really lags is to break down the complexity to manageable levels in the ui. badest thing is the fitting tool! especially new players need it. vets know what they need: noobs don't and need to play around but don't have the money to do so. solution: extrernal programmui forgets scanned down targets in exploration. solution: external programmevelopedia closed, no manual for noobs: solution: external websideigb wil go away: solution: external programbuying and selling prices: just reginal. solution external webside. why? either make it also possible ingame or take the prices out of crest. only noobs don't know the prices, vets know where to look outside eve. point for the vets.sorry, but eve should only be sold as a package with these programs because they are providing essential help for eve and also give vets an unfair advantage over noobs.ccp should focus on the ui and how improve it. why do you really need!!! to sell and buy via the item hangar? it's certainly the option for industry/ megatrade but it's just a pain if you want to buy some small things somewhere.shortkeys loosing focus (jump, align etc) is another pain.eve is technically fullfilling everything you need for a modern game but over time the ui is way back. the whole ui needs a general overhaul by someone who has experience in usability and is not a long time eve player."
"its been clearly stated by ccp that they are having a hard time retaining new players. that cannot be argued based on their own key notes. i have been playing eve since beta and have done just about every aspect except lived in a wormhole...i dont see any good reason to not make hi sec a pvp safe zone unless you are in a wardec or agree to a dual. will the population stats change locations from null sec to hi sec. maybe a little. alts will go up of course. but to alleviate it a bit they need to make things less lucrative in hi sec versus low sec to null. this includes incursions or any other new isk making element. population may shift for a bit but as with any mmo the people will be able to take larger and larger risks over time and move to the other areas where the isk pays out more. it will balance over time, but more importantly i think there will be more players in eve - maybe not pvpers right away, or maybe so, but eventually everyone will try pvp or they wont - it doesnt matter."
"well, a good step has been taken in the introduction of the animation toggle. however, i see that some would like it to be a bit more granular, as they liked some parts, but not others. as for the events, the new serp/angel events, i take or leave them. i'm glad to not be logging in each day. i know i didn't have to before, but skillpoints? might as well offer me real life gold."
"see i can quote other to and disregard them i am an old school gamer i play for the game not to come and socialze as my primary objective i like all aspects of the game from wh to null scamming and yes even ganking ive been ganked and lost billions and done same .as for the games that have gone in the toilet wow is a big one they may still have largest player base but its prob dropped by a third or more why because of catering the the blind deaf and dumb that need to be hand held. please if you find the game to difficult do the tutorials use google read take notes learn join eve university . you can teach the uninformed and the person willing to learn you can not teach the stupid and the lazy.if you are flying multi b in cargo in an untanked ship with poor agility you deserve to be ganked.the politically correct crowd always joins because its the flavor of the month.im a nerd from way back when being a nerd was defiantly not cool . now we have all these wanna be fairie princess unicorn nerds that come here to pretend and go \"weeeeeeeeeeee\" im in a space ship then they cry to mommy ( ccp ) when the bad guy \"me\" blows them up and takes there stuff or scams them well thats what makes eve different from other games please stop trying to dumb down every game you touch and ruining it for real gamers.id say a few other things to the person that enjoys copying and belittling my post but i am zero mood to be banned"
"perhaps if ccp actually advertised more there might be more people.who knows."
"ccp's doing a fine job attracting new players. keeping them is a problem, though. go watch ccp ghost give his speech at fanfest and you'll understand that part.anyway, the ganking part isn't what's killing eve. it's annoying and harassing to a degree, sure, but some risk management in not flying something overpriced and/or not carrying way too much cargo will mostly mitigate that behavior in highsec since ganking is an economic decision as much as it is a lulzy one.the biggest problem in eve right now is the war system being basically unlimited. to cherry-pick an ideal example, the marmite collective has, at the time of this posting, 128 active wars and 37 pending wars ... which adds up to them spending a total of around $8.2 billion isk on declaring wars this week. the cost is clearly not the problem. at this rate, why even have highsec? if it's so easy to find the cash to wage war on wide swaths of the non-pvp-centric players, then you're going to lose that section of your customer base since they see the game as not worth playing when they can naturally expect to be constantly at war when they have no interest in it being a constant for them.war should be a thing, sure, but the easiest fix is to just cap the total number of wars, both active and pending, per entity to five or ten. tops. you don't even have to bump the price of it to something halfway expensive, but you wouldn't catch me complaining if you did."
"i would say just give this ability to the bowhead, but take away its jump fatigue bonus to avoid power protection issues. at the same time, it lowers alot of the risk associated with moving ships which is a bad thing imo."
"i would give you my vote if it can only bridge industrial ships and is limited to low/null sec. perhaps an extended roll to the rorqual. i do see this as a potential loss of the value of jump freighters as you could just bridge regular freighters(albeit a shorter distance). in reality, the problem would be, you could bridge a t1 freighter, then jump with it, then bridge it again, eliminating the need of a jump freighter."
"the bonuses were active for perhaps two or three weeks after dust died, remaining where they were when the servers shut down. currently, they have been reset to 0% but the icon is still present because apparently removing it is too much hard work. as per usual, half measures are more than enough for the scrubs who play fw.\"faction warfare is so good that literally everyone has an alt there to take part! it doesn't need fixing!\" if someone gave you a page of statistics about fw, it would look great. there are people everywhere and there's lots of activity. it isn't until you take part (not farm lp) that you notice just how broken the mechanics have become.ship size restrictions are currently fine, the issue is with specific ships being unbalanced."
"i am the braun part and chea elohe is the brains part of my gaming accounts. our human counterpart is a 62 year old old fart a previous gamemaster for d&d, omega project, star fleet battles (campaign) morrow project, tank commander, ... i turn of the discussion to him as he is human and can best communicate to you. i steven wilkinson am a 15 year usaf veteran from 1973 to 1988. during this time i was an active supporter to the gaming clubs at each of my assigned location. for those few who dedicated the time to play i learned as much as i gave in terms of game plots that i staged to test and practice tactics and strategy. you see in the military gaming was not and is not just considered an for fun activity. it is the only on base club that did not have the strict non-fraternization rule. in my last two assignments, my commander gave me the responsibility and access to the command post so that we could use sand tables and extended maps to layout the games for our participants. i invested my weekends to support the gaming activities. in korea the club was tasked to provide exercise for law enforcement to review and act upon during exercise activities. as a member of the team who created these exercises i can attest that we enjoyed ourselves and the organization commanders appreciated the challenges we added to the training exercises. in korea our gaming organization included 125 active members from all organization on the base and a very wide range of enlisted and officer grades. every new member had to go through me for their briefing and my recommendation as to their acceptance in the gaming organization. this was a voluntary club that played in order to learn strategy and tactics. we were obligated to present any game that built up the individuals who were part of that organization and to keep our behaviour in such that it properly represented the usaf and the many organization to which we were assigned. i left active duty march 1988 have worked training military personnel in the middle-east since august 1988. on my own time i have continued to participate in gaming (computer based and table top) activities.*my briefing to my gaming partners is that gaming can be extremely addictive and we who play must take every effort to ensure that our day to day lives are not compromised by our gaming activity. our policy for our married members or members who have family responsibilities was that they limit their gaming to 8 hours in a week and less if military obligation interfer.*i have given you this information so that there is a foundation to what i am about to recommend. \"eve online\" is a civilian game and is a commercial enterprise. from my experience i can testify that games that have changing plots in which the players are give parts to play produce the most active and committed participants. in this i am referring to role playing and depends on activity as part of a team. all games loose when it is left to one person. now lets talk about pvp vs pve. pvp is a drag to some individuals. pvp is counter productive if there is no balance between the individuals. eve online has a basic design that if applied permits new individuals / teams to be developed. i suggest the following to increase participation and membership. these changes will make more money for ccp and more fun for the members.*a ccp fleet auxiliary organization and acadamy be added to the game. this organization is committed to enforcing law in high sec and as membership, skills, budget and resources are made available by member participation they are committed to bring that same law standard to low sec and beyond. *the ccp fleet auxiliary organization and academy provide computer based support to expand membership to each time zone and team development in each of these time zones. the members must spend 4 days (96 hours) training in each vessel with fleet exercises provided and required for the training of each level 5 mastery. the goal is to introduce teams that live in the same time zones and can organize with each other to develop fleets that are qualified to compete with those who demand to have pvp as an obligation. the difference is that pvp is limited to low sec and below else they meet the force of both the ccp ai and the ccp fleet auxiliary. old member can choose to become part of ccp fleet auxiliary and this has the impact of raising their security rating and all high sec locations protect ccp fleet members. yes ganking organizations can choose to attack high value targets but the value of those targets will depend on the success of the ccp fleet auxiliary doing its job of interdicting low sec individuals and fleets who take such action in high sec. as the plan proceeds that will be a natural conflict between those who want the wild wild west in nul and work whole space and those who are committed to enforcing high sec law in the rest of eve space."
"the idea is for a tactical shield manipulation adjustment option of shield density on the fly.for example : shield density 100% - 75% - 50% - 25% now we only have fixed 100% density and no shield manipulation.i like to add another thoughtlogically if you have an object with shields + armor and whole structure you will imagine that as damage progresses through -shields some will trickle through on to the armor and then to the whole depending from the resistance loss of the shield and armorthis effect will trigger the use of shield and armor equally and with the use of ts manipulation as i describe you can emphasize -shield or armor favoring . retaining some hp on either shields or armor you can take advantage of their resistance effects then a complete depletion of -shields or armor as we do now"
"actually ships come stock with 75% shield density, and for every level of tacktical shield manipulation you train, that falls by 5%.which is why no one in their right mind trains tsm 5.what exactly are you trying to accomplish here? and more importantly, why do you think it's necessary?eve is like an addiction; you can't quit it until it quits you. also, iderno"
"as we all know and as proven by someone about 5 years ago (or something like that chribba maybe?) who did a study on jita local (after ccp said... no bro those are all individual real people, not robots) that it turned virtually anyone that uses local in these trade hubs are simply scammers/bots spamming at a ungodly rate with multiple accounts spamming the same `contract` with promises of glory and great worth/value for money.why do we not do something ever so simple, and suspend the ability for anyone to post a contract link into local specifically in trade hub systems, jita .. amarr (insert hub).the only issue i can see to this idea is that people out there would say something like, but i want to advertise my contract in local, well you can still send it in e-mails, corp, alliance chat or other channels you may be apart of, i am simply suggesting only a new rule to local chats.by doing this we shut down 90% of the scam spam in local and perhaps reduce allot of the lag in jita localhowever from a ccp perspective i guess scamming is seem as part of the game (otherwise it would of been addressed by now...) and that if we think logically with the reduction in people recently) more active accounts scamming away ultimately leads to more real world isk.just my 1 dollar of thought on the subject."
"not to put a damper on your personal experience, recommendations, and so forth ... but ccp is aware the newbro playerbase needs additional support in order to boost retention rates as a part of overcoming the inherent complexities of eve online. they're working on it, but mainly as integrating it into the new player experience (i.e., the newbie training). i'm sure they'd love to hear more specific details on how, exactly, new players could be better-supported."
"i am totally in favor of helping new players. perhaps first 30 days immune to pvp unless they flag selves.or some sort of mandatory training quests to get acquainted to game and the rules.lots of new players come in and its overload.perhaps more hands on from some volunteers.people need to be told hey man thats not wise and let them accept the advice or reject.iam sure ccp knows what new players dont like maybe some compromise or more of a penalty when people gank.such as more lower security ratinglike4 ganks and you get a - 10 and your off to low and have to repair status.that may be to severe but as people say more support for new people is needed."
"*can you write a story based on a month's gaming time? would the story change each month? there are many types of individuals some who like pvp and others who would like to track each and every ganker and destroy them every time they sho their harassing faces. the point of creating an fleet auxiliary for the ccp would provide a structure in which to take new and old players to systematically create a team based organization that provides each a fun way of playing while getting the most out of training and to provide a negative factor for the harassing ganker to have consider. look at our corporation system. i work in the middle-east and i play between 1500 to 2000 eve time. look at the number of corps that claim to operate during these hours. there are truly far less than listed. i have looked. we need a system that connects people so that we have coverage 23 hours per day. we need that system to provide the game with a usable plot that can be incorporated in the function and character of the game. i note that i am coming from the usa historical western migration and the institution of law in those regions as frontiersmen and women who explored the land were replaced by families and businesses wanting security, safety, and clear lines to move products and resources to warrant their investments. we have in eve the micro culture of this migration and we have the ability to use known human nature to motivate the players in creating game play the uses pvp, pvi and role play. the ccp auxiliary is used to recruit new and old players to establish law enforcement /industry/mining and shipping to police high sec. if bad boys and girls in low and nullsec desire to repent of their way there has to ways to permit their enlistment into ccp auxiliary. ccp developer will have an open story board on which to design environments for these individuals to train in every ccp ship and gain training points for the completion of each training exercise. in addition to completing training exercises, each ccp auxiliary fleet will be assigned a system in high sec to patrol 24 hours each day and protect all residents of that system. the ccp will have exercises to provide orca boost in each system that they are assigned to the auxiliary has to protect these missions until the active ccp fleet arrives. this starts in high sec and continues as the auxiliary moves to alianances in low, nul and worm whole space. there will be those who will want to test the system. this is part of game creation and is important to keep eve energy. but by recruiting fleets it will mean having the gankers facing competition and give a sense of fairness to the unarmed miners and solo players.*how specifically is the new player trained? in the ccp aux they are linked to an existing fleet with team speak and work their way thru each vessel in an interactive environment to complete the mission of that environment and to gain lvl 5 master of that ship. i would be very happy to work with a developer to put in operation. there are four races and eight (8) faction frigates. each frigate has it own mission and fits and is beneficial as training is completed. requirement for training in each frigate would mean operating a fleet of all the frigates for each training environment and having to use each race and factors ship. how many skill points for the completion of each of the exercises need to be balanced but use of skill bonuses coordinated with the training enables the players to move upward and onward in the gaming environment."
"no.the only way to wage war now is to camp pipes and trade hubs. other forms of war are now defunct...thanks to ccp."
"if i'm hearing you correctly, it sounds like you're asking ccp to cross a line which they, themselves, had drawn in the sand. as a rule, ccp does not play in the sandbox alongside players on their official/admin accounts except to provide occasional backdrop, storyline events, and sometimes to just chat in trade hubs for a few minutes to promote something related to the game. what ccp does do is to hand out the buckets and shovels for others to decide how they want to play in the sandbox.there's nobody stopping you from operating your own vision of the auxiliary force in your own name. send out your recruiters, get a lot of new/old guys, and start waging the holy war on ignorance of the vision of what high security space should be. police the hell out of it and reshape it ... but ... don't ask ccp to do that in the same style. they're much more likely to make adjustments to the environment itself in order to incentivize play styles. we're just going to have to agree to disagree on that point."
"stop concord oppression!fight for the good guys!"
"steve? really? add up all the advantages lower security space has over high sec. capital ships, cyno jumps, sov, jump bridges, moon mining, no annoying concord, stealth bombing, infrastructure upgrading, the list goes on and on.drug manufacturing in only low sec/ null sec restricts high sec pilots who roam in anoikis and into lower security space from using their skills to produce legal products closer to their now expanding customer base.to say lower security space needs to continue this monopoly has no basis in unbiased facts. the risk to gather enough materials to produce the boosters still exists because gas clouds can mostly be found in lower security space. i think upon further review, if it is not fearfully biased, you will see high sec manufacturing will boost revenue for lower security space industrialists who will have more outlets for both their raw components and finished drug products. look at the bigger picture without trying to create/maintain a no longer useful monopoly for lower security space industrialists that are otherwise doing well and will certainly only benefit from a larger demand for their products in high sec markets where most pilots inhabit. it has the added benefit of luring more pilots into lower security space on a regular basis to keep their high sec drug manufacturing facilities supplied. many will learn to like it. many will often come to a fiery conclusion. how is any of that a bad thing?"
"how will letting some industrialists move their operations from lowsec to highsec lure more people into lowsec? the production side of the equation has no direct effect on the demand of boosters so all you would be doing is increasing the competition by making it easier to get into the business, and lowering the risk (and profits) for booster manufacturers. the game needs more reasons for players to leave highsec and fight each other - the risk vs. reward of the various spaces has fallen so terribly out of balance in recent years. removing one of the few advantages for an industrialist to take the risk and spend the effort to set up shop in lowsec or a wormhole is not a good direction to take, and one that is likely not in the cards. if anything, non-highsec industrialists still need more reasons to exist given the ease and safety of operating in highsec. lowsec should be a place players want to live and earn a living, not just visit briefly during meaningless drunken roams looking for consensual pvp."
"you ignore easily time proven market factors and fall back on the false risk vs. reward whine.the risk in getting to and harvesting the gas clouds still exists. but you'll just pretend that is not the case.what has fallen so terribly out of balance is the lack of risk for seasoned lower security pilots vs high sec pilots. you have capital ships, stealth bombers, bubbles, boosters, local resources to resupply you, hot drops, jump bridge networks, lethal pos that even flying near to can results in almost certain death, and a whole neighborhood that targets any new visitor. with all that you fear any change that will give any opportunity to someone else, shamefully pitiful.so you think we are drunken pilots, because we live in high sec and only drop by lower security space on a lark. how often to you travel far from your homebase? i'd wager not too often. because when you are red you are quickly dead unless you are in a fleet.more people making boosters, means more people using boosters, which results in more people going to mine the gas clouds, which means more profit for the lower security industrialist because of the bigger market, and more content for the pvp gankers and campers who will intercept many of those seeking the gas clouds.sadly low sec has become the realm of anachronistic bitter pilots who can not accept change and want everyone to play like they do, just to fight. where would you get your ships and modules and ammo if everyone only did pvp? industrialists don't need gankers, and most gankers never leave homebase to engage in stand up fights against armed targets. look how quickly the goons collapsed when their targets were shooting back. most of you think gate camping and ganking makes you good at pvp because you overwhelmed your target or they had no weapons to shoot back. great job you are a real pro!face the facts, the only reason you want to keep the monopoly is because you don't think you could compete against the competition, so sad to be you. times will change despite your grumpy old man whining, so turn your wheelchair towards the sun and eat your applesauce while the new kids take over the block pops."
"i'm not pretending anything at all. that risk still exists and your proposal does nothing to change that. but what you are falsely claiming is that somehow by allowing the second part of the industrial chain, the gas processing, to move to highsec, you are going to get more people into low sec. you will not. in fact, you will only serve to get people to move back to highsec depleting the lowsec population further in contrast to your claim that this would be good for lowsec activity. quit crying. the game is balanced this way for a reason. if you want to make boosters, set up shop outside of highsec. that's the deal.eve is about choices and trade-offs, not whining about how you can't have something like a toddler. such behaviour is not very becoming and you are embarrassing yourself. there is no monopoly. you can make boosters anywhere but in highsec. that is the trade-off for the security blanket of concord. deal with that reality and adapt your game play to it. you'll find a much greater chance of success than your current course of pleading with ccp to re-write the rules of the game to suit your selfish whims."
"why you posing bro?you are a high sec ganker.you don't live in lower security space.you only shoot targets that don't shoot back. you don't know diddly about low sec industrialists. you played yourself trying to play me but your gank record shows you never go to low sec. high sec ganking of mining ships is not pvp, it's cowardice.real men shoot things that shoot back.talk about regions of space you inhabit, try not to live the lie here in the forums.your opinion will be respected when you don't pretend to know about regions you don't have the spine to visit.c o d e stands for cowards offer dumb explanationsyou're excused from this discussion because you are a fraud, 100% horse pucky."
"lets not dilute one of the last remaining occupations of the lowsec pirate by letting them be produced in highsec.you wanna play with the big toys then move out of highsec and setup a shop-1 calm down miner. as you pointed out, people think they can get away with stuff they would not in rl... like for example illegal mining... - ima wreckyou*"
"thats not how this works, you have runners for that, sell the drugs to the runners who will deliver them, you can fit soo many drugs in interceptors. its what makes drugs such a pirate-like experience. calm down miner. as you pointed out, people think they can get away with stuff they would not in rl... like for example illegal mining... - ima wreckyou*"
"friend, i think you should go dry your keyboard out. your tears have caused your typing to come out all bolded and justified strangely. while your tear-drenched keyboard is drying out, you can use the time to think of a real argument of to why the game should be changed in your favour that isn't completely made up of tired clich<U+FFFD>s and butthurt."
"a nomadic band/fleet of eve lower security space/ anoikis industrialist explorers get a new ship to move them and their stuff around further and faster. great! new content, new opportunities!of course eventually someone predatory, or just someone defending their local assets finds them, a conflict ensues, and you demand the intruders/ new arrivals have not even a little chance to defend themselves. how heroic. this is why eve pvp in lower security space has earned such a bad reputation with new pilots, most refuse to even fly there. pvp in far too many cases has devolved into the equivalent of sneaking up behind a defenseless pilot, then bashing their skull in. they never had a chance.look at the eve solo pvp vids online, the skills required, the courage displayed, makes you want to fly and fight pvp in eve. the pilot has to plan, and then react to quickly changing events to succeed against a dangerous target or targets that could also kill him in the fight if he makes mistakes or misjudges the threat. that is real pvp.should this new ship, have a limited amount of capability to transport combat ships? yes. should it carry only industrial ships? no, that is stupid beyond belief in a hostile environment.per fleet pilot one fitted cruiser for low sec, one fitted battleship that can only be launched for null sec, or some reasonable limitation of this type would allow pilots to have a fighting chance. are you really that afraid of pilots being able to fight back? if so please justify it, so that maybe i can learn to understand your apparent birth right to be served only defenseless targets."
"synergy"
"ccp already has the perfect mechanism from the now dearly departed dust514. the room where the dusties waited for battle was a sprawling atrium with a view of space where you could walk around with other mercs and form squads. it would be a perfect fit for in citadels as an added attraction while you view the space around it.come on ccp grow a pair and do this, the mittani is too busy standing in the ashes of his formerly over rated coalition & alliance to bark and raise a ruckus now, so let's get this done, okay?"
"alts"
"have you actually read what the war dec guys have written? i have and i find their arguments compelling. unless you are going to do infiltration, and even that is now harder thanks to the change in the watchlist, camping is pretty much it. have lots of wars and camp pipes and hubs and let the prey come to you. much easier than trying to find somebody that is now damn hard to find."
"what a nice pile of bogus assumptions. the war dec cost formula supposedly peaks out at 500 million isk when you dec a corp/alliance with 2,000 pilots. for your 8.2 billion isk to be true, they have to have wars against corporation with 330,000 pilots. calling bravo sierra on that number.in fact, if they decced corps with 50 pilots of less then the cost is actually an order of magnitude less.might help to know the mechanic you are talking about."
"i'm aware of the cost scaling of war declarations, and most wars are declared against small organizations at the base cost of 50 million per war. i posted roughly the minimum cost for that many wars and your argument on how it should cost more isn't helping your case."
"okay, you are correct, i am the one who was off.however, why do you think they are declaring that many wars?are they stupid and just wasting isk?are they doing it just to be dicks?are they doing it to try and get fights and kills?some other reason?if you were a merc and you had your own corp of mercs and somebody came and wanted you to take out another corporation please detail how you'd get information on your potential target?tell me how you'd know which system(s) they are/were in, when they are online, and so forth?even ccp admits that the change in the watchlist has had an adverse impact on focused war decs. and you wonder why there has been an increase in blanket war decs...trying to ensure you have enough potential targets while you run through the pipes between hubs and when camping said trade hubs."
"i'm not saying you're wrong about the reasons for people blanketing entire regions with wardecs. it's certainly easier to throw cheap wars everywhere and see what sticks ... but it's also counterproductive in the longer term for the game as a whole. so, yeah, maybe some additional changes and/or rollbacks would help the problem as it stands. that said, i still believe there needs to be a hard cap on the number of wars to keep something like this from getting out of hand again if such improvements fail to live up to expectations."
"that is a ccp problem. one they created. blaming it on corps that respond to the change in mechanics is like blaming water for flowing down hill.rolling thing back may not work. ever hear the phrase of pandora's box? i think this might a similar situation. these groups have been playing together for awhile now. they are not suddenly going to break apart because the change in mechanics that drove them together has been undone. it may take entirely new mechanics to achieve that goal.hard caps are stupid and lazy and counter to the very core of this game. this game is not about hard and fast rules like in most other mmos but is entirely open ended. it is about letting players do stuff that nobody anticipated.personally i find this all totally hilarious. i find it hilarious because people whined...war decs are too cheap make them more expensive. so ccp did and those players using the war dec mechanic adapted and changed and banded together and now run isk making operations to fund the increased war costs. next players whined about the watchlist and the war dec players said, \"if you do this there will be more balnket war decs\" so ccp did it and....we got more blanket war decs.tell me, exactly how many more nerfs does this game need before it is \"fixed\"?"
"credit where it's due, the \"c o d e stands for...\" thing was pretty funny"
"your post was too long to quote all of it, but i would give you all of my space likes if i could. well said.i kept the most important part. if you dislike the game they way it is, then go find a game you enjoy, instead of trying to change this one to be the game you were looking for in the first place.eve is like an addiction; you can't quit it until it quits you. also, iderno"
"i think teckos pech does not understand the killboard as a meaning for wardec pilots. he thinks in isk and expects that others think the same. of course there is an isk boarder where people just will not use wardecs anymore, but the idea of higher price leads to less wardecs is not true, due to the different pilot goals.i think if a change is needed (i do not think so for wardecs) it is that war decs should get a winning and loosing condition. currently the war decced parties goal is loose as little as possible in a certain amount of time.better would be in my eyes if the war dec can be forced to an end by a condition of sorts plus a peace cool down timer in order to give the attacked party time to breath.lol just found ->"
"i do not think in terms of just isk. i don't know what gave you that idea, but that is quite simply wrong.however, higher isk cost would lead to less wars....all other factors held constant. but those other factors are not constant and many of those factors are something players can control such as banding together into a larger group. this would open up new opportunities for making isk as a larger group can now field more pilots if needed to defend things like a reaction farm.as for the link he goes rather badly off the rails right away:i don't think that will do anything, to be quite honest. the reason why wars are lopsided is that one side, generally speaking, has chosen not to learn pvp mechanics. as such unless this structure is vulnerable 24/7 i doubt anyone will undock to shoot it. and if it is vulnerable 24/7 then war dec corps are going to get screwed again. they'll anchor the structure and then it will get blown up while they are in bed. and even the war dec corps and alliances get even bigger to have 24/7 coverage of the structure we are back to no defenders undocking.the \"problem\" with wars is one of attitude. one group of players like pvp and they know the mechanics. the other group does not like pvp pretty much at all and they do not know the pvp mechanics. thus, one side is just not going to fight. they are not going to fight now, nor are they likely to fight over a structure."
"your argumentation is sole based on isk. so i came to the assumtion that you messure success in isk like a lot of people do.i do not mean to disrespect. it is just my experience when i deal with fellow miners that they think in sole isk terms.so instead of 2 corps individually wardecing 15 corps ( in total 30) you want them both to focus on 10 corps with doubled crew?i could also imagine that certain individuals will attract even more wars.i could imagine that on global range it would reduce the feeling for people to be in a war, but worse the situation for people who are in one.also i do believe it is hard to determine the right amount for a cost of a wardec. because for groups that can finance themself through other means it might be easier to compensate, while others will stop useing wardecs at all because they simply do not have the ressources.i assume that richer wardeccers will stay longer in that biz, then youngsters or corps with simpler financial structures.in total i see the risk, that raise of wardec prise as a lone meassure would lead to:# professionalism of war deccers (only those with higher income or savings will go for this)# increase / focus of the unwilling and frustraded pilots that want to mine at all costs.imho this is the wrong focus. if wardecs are a problem to individual groups they should be dealt with individually. so a raise of wardec price is in my eyes not goal leading.the price currently effects only the duration of a war. a not good running war will end quickly, while good running wars will be extended. to find the right war partner a wardeccing corp will start of with a wide spread, and then find the right targets.i think the \":\" should be a \".\". the following is not a quote.i do not believe that a structure is a solution either, since the defender is the one who has to be online not the attacker.however intersting is the idea that the wardec is bound to a winning condition. the war ends when the winning condition is reached. so the defender as a reason to fight.current war decs there is no benefit for the defender to search the fight. some do out of fun, but you could also choose not to undock during wars.that is the potential in this idea. while the idea as such is imperfect the idea is imho the right one."
"no prior to the nerf each corp might have 15 wars. after the nerf, they might be able to have 7-8 each. they band together and can have 15 or 16 or more.the question is, are there economies of scale in isk making? if the answer is yes, then they might be able to have even more wars. maybe even 20 or possibly 30.i disagree. as i noted i think the issue is one of attitude. what winning condition will induce people not interested in pvp to undock and face pvp?"
"+1 from me! i've wanted to have a character alligned to these pirate factions since i discovered eve. maybe even to the point my highsec would be let's say sansha space, while the current highsec would be nullsec full of rats to me.i think factions in gen"
"while i admit i'm not at all experienced with the drug trade in industry - i can say with experience that allowing key structures in high sec space to manufacture drugs could vastly change the economy in a big way.likening to the ease at which we are now able to do things in high sec with pos's that we couldn't do before for example.i'm all in favor of making more isk - but i don't see a compelling reason to bring drug manufacturing to high sec in-spite of it being legalized.i'm more traditionalist when it comes to eve - lets leave it as-is for now.so chalk one up for the \"you want to do it? get your ass out of high sec\" category."
"*sarcasm*yes lets move contract spamming to systems around jita - namely citadels with market hubs - yes lets cause a crapton of eve mail spamming where certain key individuals have 0 isk spam filters set for diplo reasons.*sarcasm*i suspect you didn't put much thought into your proposal.back to the drawing board you go.you want a solution? yes delete contract linking - make a new browser for contract searching where can create ads like corporation recruitment ads. - however people will complain they want to link contracts.if we can make the contract window more market viewer friendly....maybe you can talk them out of it.this won't stop morons from spamming \"literally anything\" in local as it is.in my honest opinion ccp should be more aggressive about spamming when it comes to frequency and what is put in local. but that's me and my \"5 cents\"-ramses"
"just minimise local while you're in a trade hub. it's not hard."
"greetings,as a pure, new player in the eve universe i had a very displaesing experience lately:my coorporation got wardeced.the result of this was that i had to dock up, log off the game and do something else while the war was on.there are several issues tied to this:1. i have paied to play a game i am denied playing. if i undock i will be shot by a gang. 2. my character (and me) is seven weeks old. so are most of the other chars i my tiny company. the guys who wared us are 10 years old. how am i gonna stand up against a pack of very experienced players with skillpoints and ships which outclasses me a hundred times?3. i am not a hard core gamer. i am wodering how family fathers like me can have our fun in eve when they have time to, and not when the aggressive high sec gankers alow me to. i could go on and make a long list here, but i think my point is clear enough:i cant play the game i bought, and the reason is other players denying me. they are more experienced, they operate in large gangs and they have enough isk not to worry about it. ccp has even provided them with agents who happily will tell where i am (the locator agents). all is in the hands of the gankers who off course win every time.as i understand that ccp want pvp to be the core of everything, it is highly needed to implement a way to make it possible for people like me, with limited time, to enjoy our adventures in new eden. i am fine with unsafe sorroundings. just make it fair."
"leave corporation.problem solved."
"yes, i know that leaving is to some extent a solution. however as a new player trying to get into all the myriads of this and that in eve (which is one of the reasons this seems like an awsome game) leaving my coorporation does not seem very appealing to me. if it wasnt for the corp i would have had a hard time getting the hang of this.the other reasone leaving the corp seems like a bad idea is that if everyone should leave everytime a wardec comes up there would be too much leaving and rejoining to build something stronger. again; all the cards on the hads of the experienced, none om the hands of the rookies."
"another reason why leaving the corp is not a good solution: i can join another corp or rejoin after war. i guess it is just a matter of time before a new war starts, and then i have to do this again.i can stay in a npc corp but how fun is that.so now i am looking at two uneatable solutions: be denied a corp membership or be denied playing at all.this has to be addressed. give the rookies some means to means to play at a fair level."
"let me guess..you thought you had safety and immunity to attacks even before you joined your corporation.wrong.1: high security space (0.5 to 1.0) does not nor will it ever guarantee safety. all i have to do is find you...and i can blow your ship up and pod you at any time of my choosing once you are un-docked. not even concord will stop me. the illusion of safety you have right now is totally false. oh sure i'll get blown up....but who cares....it's my choice and i can take it anytime. i can afford to replace my losses easily.2: corporations provide a number of niceties - none of which impact your safety or your ability to survive. a corporation is a team. a team that gains access some nice abilities such as pos's/citadels. asset sharing. communications.but this doesn't remove the ability anyone in npc has - such as fleet activities. you are saddly mistakened if you think its necessary to survive in your current state. oh sure - numbers help...alliances...diplomatic status...but a corporation is just a flag with colors....doesn't remove the fact you still need to know how to fight.3: by leaving a corporation or being npc'd you still have access to your corporation mates (if they are worth anything that is) - and pretty much do what you need to do while immune to war dec's.a war-dec means you can kill them back by the way.no penalties....no consequences.eve online is a non-consensual pvp game with pve/industry aspects - is it 100% pvp? no. but pvp is a way of life and you should accept that fact.this was never a question of fairness....its a question of survival.eve online is not for the feint of heart.....so don't stick around if you can't handle the coldness of space.so what do you do about it?you can quit the game and leave.....problem solved...because i can tell you right now...your voice will be ignored..taunted...teased.jeered...you likely made yourself a target of suicide ganks even as you made your first posts. its totally legit.or you can say ok - what can i do about this?learn to fight....learn to defend yourself. reapr the riches that comes with knowledge...so you get blown up....its gonna happen.think its bad? try playing when i started....we can talk about harshness.cant'? not interested in learning to fight?then quit your corporation.....its the easiest thing to do....you can freely go about your business - course your not safe even then - as you can get blown up at any time. fly smart....but at least its not \"open season\" as gankers generally don't target people unless they have a reason to do so. find out how!but you can at least figure things out...learn to play.....try to educate yourself. google.com is your friend! vast resources of knowledge out there on any subject for eve you can think of.eve online is about knowledge....you need to do your homework.....read....study....it takes brains...and guile...you obviously came here looking for answers...put it to work then.you're corporation is not doing its job if this is how you feel about the game...and i'm sorry for that....you should find someone else....because if they aren't educating you and helping you through this war-dec....then they don't deserve you.i suggest you go check out eve university as your next corp. good place to start.sorry if your upset....but you deserve the truth.all in all...welcome to eve online - you where going to find out sooner or later.and good luck. paranoia is healthy. :) kept me alive. it can help you.edit: 25 member corporation and it can't defend itself? yeah....issues there."
"i thought nothing. i am new to this, as in no other hopes than embarking a cool game.that said i have read these forums and found your answears sll around.leave corp, this game is not for you, you made yourself an easy target by posting etc etc. my concern is not about imunity or total security in high sec. that sounds boring. my topic is about 10 year old characters with ships and skills i never can stand up against. they are delt the superior cards by any means. this might be cool for those who are ten years old, but not so cool for the rookies. it is unbalanced. and if it is so that i by this post have made myself an easy target so be it. i will update the thread as playing goes on. until then my advice to all who are concedring posting here not to do so."
"you should learn to read before you go mouthing off about things you don't understand.even a noob can take down a \"10 year old\"but your too hung up on yourself to learn.fair enough...good luck....your going to need it."
"eve is a pvp game, and it's an mmo with character progression. a corporation is eve's version of a nation, and can declare war and be wardecced, these facts are not in dispute and will not change. it is up to you to adapt your expectations and aactions to them.you can play during a wardec. you have several options open to you; loosely they are run, quit, hide, deal or fight.the option i would recommend is not to tie yourself to a corp that is unable or unwilling to defend itself. hisec is notoriously infested with these corps and i am sorry that you have been sucked in to one, but the fact is that your corp's incompetence, inexperience and lack of resources are not reasons why you should be exempted from having to make choices that the rest of us deal with daily.in your situation i would strongly advise joining a different corp, able and willing to defend itself, and able and willing to teach you to defend yourself. that situation would make the choices available to you much more attractive. once you learn some basic eve mechanics, and put some effort into your resources and capabilities, you will be able to laugh off wardecs. i know that sounds implausible to you in your situation, but it's absolutely true.one option that is always open to you is to join one of the new player focused groups in 0.0; pandemic horde, karmafleet, etc. if you care to do so, you'll learn about game mechanics, pvp, how little losing a ship means, and maybe even have some fun."
"thank you for a honest and friendly reply! this is the way a forum should work."
"it has been awhile since we have seen one of these threads.the answer has been, and always will be; you already have options.- leave corp- join an established corporation or have your corporation join an established alliance that can teach and protect you- roll a neutral alt... use it to grab some cheapo electronic warfare ships. research some fast, ranged fits. research tactics on how to avoid unfavorable encounters (hint: intsa-undocks, bookmarks, etc). take a page out of every guerilla rebal group in history and start using hit and run harassment tactics.your objective will be to sufficiently **** off your attackers to the point where you are not worth the effort.(full disclosure, i did this as a newbie against other veterans)."
"in all justice to the op and others like him, i really wish ccp wouldn't tout \"form a corp with your other 2 buddies who also started playing 8 days ago!\" as a normal activity.forming a corp is something you do after you've finished your adorably clueless newbie stage.at the very least it should require a rank 1 skill to v and a hundred or two million isk to create a corp."
"as someone who has been playing for quite a while and gets wardec'd every few months here is my advice.wardec corps usually hang around trade hubs and pipes. look up their killboards and check where they are active.find some systems far from where they are active and play there until the wardec is over.else, join another corp until the wardec is over. then move back if you want.ignore any nonsense from players trying to scare you into thinking this game is super hard.hang in there, and learn to play smart."
"sadly i've seen null sec alliances in rookie systems offering 5 to 15million per mission to join their corp. so i find it rather amusing when someone talks about how they should wait to join a corp or even to create one. the whole point of an mmo is to play together with other people hince why it is a \"massively multiplayer online\" game keyword multiplayer. this doesn't mean you have to get along with all those people, or that all those people have to like you.granted i fully understand where you are coming from malcanis. i have the same belief but the fact that veteran players consistantly go against that belief and that newbros don't know the difference is where its both sad and amusing.op, listen i feel your pain been there done that even went merc for a while. the point of the game is to have fun. if you aren't having fun talk with the people you play with and figure something out together. don't listen to people when they tell you \"eve isn't for you\". the fact that you started playing or had an interest in it to begin with means it \"is\" for you. there are players that have made loose groups in npc corps they call themselves a cic (corp in corp). they setup a private channel that they all join to joke and trade ideas. they fleet up together and mine, mission run and do everything that is associated with non-pvp activity. also because they are not in a player corp they are ammune to war decs. you and your buddies could always start one yourselves. granted you won't have access to a corp wallet, corp hangers, or corp contract system. but in reality you don't really need it.for all those haters out there that constantly tell players mainly newbros that they should stop crying and eve isn't for them. i've seen this happen on other games. while constructive criticism is always a good thing, out right telling a player to leave a game is a bad idea. by doing so you are only hurting the game you enjoy and put so much time into to do what ever it is you do in the game. there are always flaws in a game design, the devs can't think of everything. there are always going to be 100million reasons to change 100million things to make it \"better\". its the devs choice in the end if they don't think that way again we can call them idiots or morons all we want and they will keep on doing what they want to do. would anyone of you do any different if someone told you that your choice was stupid to them?the point is stop telling players to leave the game, maybe we might keep a few. give them ideas, give them a place to grow hell, teach them something even if its to die. at least they might learn from it and grow as a player."
"you could leave your corp and apply to join the corp that has you wardecced.this has several advantages:1) the wardeccing corp's players know how to play eve right and you will learn things correctly instead of what your current corp teaches, which is cowardice when you get right down to it.2) wardeccers tend to be nicer people, more open to sharing their experience and isk with new players and generally more fun to be with.3) wardeccers rarely mine.4) the first time you kill another player you will find out why so many of us are addicted to this game despite the terrible pve gameplay, constantly changing rules and clunky interface. hint: adrenaline is a drug.5) fat, dumb and stupid is no way to go through life.and finally6) wardeccers rarely mine.op, you know something is wrong. fix it. abandon carebearism. by choosing to mine in new order systems, highsec miners have agreed to follow the new halaima code of conduct. www.minerbumping.com"
"ok. i can do pvp. it just seemed like a good idea to get into how the game works before throwing myself head first into something bad. but i guess eve isnt that different from other games after all."
"there's nothing worng with joining a corp run by experienced players with good support infrastructure early on; in fact it's absolutely the best thing to do. although i personally would recommend to a new player that they run the tutorial missions to get an idea of what they actually want to do and be before joining anyone."
"the carreer missions are basics of all and provide a set of knowledge you the one way or the other must accuire. i have done all of them. however they do not contain pvp at all and for sure do not give any hints about how to play during a war."
"how? if the 10 year char messes up badly maybe. the main part is: the 10 year can afford to loose a 1b ship a week but the new char can hardly afford to loose t1 destroyer. don't fly anything you can't afford to loose is a good advice up to the point where your chances are low and you can't afford any loss. the deccer is winning without shooting once because they can afford every loss and the other can't. so they do the smart thing: docking and in the end dropping eve because some vet needs easy ganking to bolster his kill board because he can't keep up with vets that have the skills and resources to match him."
"exactly my point. and as a rookie it is hard to get any support for this view. however there are some good advices in this thread. that said this might be a game for the veterans that slowly will drop players because the new ones finds it boring be doomed to loose every time.t"
"a good advise would be, that he has to be there to hit you. so if you watch local, you know when it's safe to fly. second: if he really hunts you and you are not just blanket decced: move. you are most likely not not worth it to move across half of new eden. or you go to some area where you might find help by the residence: providence. this region is null but there the rule is nrds (not red don't shoot). you are not red but the chances that the deccer is red to the providence corps are high. and even if he follows you, killing you will put him on the kos list there."
"course bear in mind anyone can shoot you in nullsec regardless....that means there will be people who don't care.but at least you've changed the battlefield considerably."
"even if a veteran can afford to loose 1 billion a week in ships, it does not necessarily mean he/she wants to sink that kind of cost in a random wardec he/she has no particular stake in besides \"giggles.\"this is especially the case if the the situation leading to the lost ship was frustrating and \"not very fun.\"like i said before; you do not have to fight directly. you do not have to do things on your aggressor's terms. you merely need to make the war declaration not worth their time.- you can use 1 million isk frigates loaded with electronic warfare mods to buzz around and make the fight miserable and drawn out (see: you can't kill them because you don't have any damage, but they can't kill you because ewar is effective against pretty much all ships... including \"high-end\" ones).------------- you can use these tactics when doing missions too (so you can keep earning an income). one of you performs the mission while the rest of you cover him/her from hostiles if hostiles show up... the people covering can jam the hostiles while the main mission runner warps away. then everyone scatters.- wait until your aggressors are sitting on the undock and are all complacent. send one of your guys out to be the \"sacrificial lamb\" so they all have aggression timers (and thus cannot dock in the station), then undock in destroyers fit for suicide ganking and nuke the most expensive, squishy thing on field (you have to crunch some numbers before you do this so you can choose the right target).if you score a kill, you will have made the war \"expensive\" for the veteran players and are now forcing them to make a cost-fun/benefit choice (see: was that a fluke and should we continue? or should we cut our losses to preserve our killboard reputation?)- go out into low-sec. the locals there may tear you apart if they catch you... but they will also do the same to your attackers. and unlike your attackers, the low-sec locals are not gunning for you specifically. hell... if you talk with them they may help you a little bit (example: train you).alternatively... you can always dabble in the art of negotiation. ask them what they want. if they ask for isk, say you don't have any... what else can be done?here is something from my history: when i was a nubbin, my newbie lol-corp was war-decced. we were harassed, ganked, camped, and well... you get the picture.then we organized and did exactly what i mentioned above!then we talked with the war deccers. we eventually worked out a deal where were would all meet in a certain system at a certain time... bring everything you have to the table... one glorious battle to end everything.and win or lose, they would drop the war after that.guess what... they did."
"if they aren't going to clean them up, then they need to open corp tickers to being up to six characters. give us the ability to make more good ticker names."
"change the thread title to 'unwilling to play during wardec', please"
"you snooze, you lose.sorry, but if i'd taken a five year hiatus (or whatever) after playing for several years (and with a paid-for subscription, no less), i'd be pretty incensed that a johnny-come-lately had stolen my identity.find another 'good' name. if you can't do that, may i suggest either a thesaurus or a list of baby names."
"ccp thinks vr is the future, rip eve online since the compnay can not compete in the near future with new space mmo's source:"
"i guess you have to trust ccp with your money to one day make some sort of crest related feature that is somehow replacing the igb, sadly the company chose not to do this in the same point release cycle of ripping the browser out of the game crest is what remains of the ceo's highly hyped and anticipated feature called carbon technology that gave us incarna,that was developed further by the current executive producer ccp seagull and still remains to see any worthy oog application.source:"
"i regret to inform you, it's just not that simple. integrating a browser into a 3d engine takes more than just waving your hands at it, and 'integrating it'.bunch of work. and things do change, which would mean ccp would need to check it each time that they integrate a new version, which means a ongoing workload.they didn't take the decision to remove it lightly. lots of internal discussion on it."
"exactly. i've been reading this thread, in various stages, for almost 10 years now, and no one has yet even managed to come close to reconciling the irreconcilable.as long as people with no interest in learning how to defend themselves and no interest in paying others to do so keep forming corps which can be wardecced, this \"discussion\" will continue.it's not really a discussion though, because there simply isn't enough common ground for it to really be a discussion. it's just squirrels and sharks yelling past each other about which would be the best place for them both to look for food. the squirrels want to look for nuts in the trees; the sharks want to chase fish in the seas. there is no option to satisfy one that doesn't kill the other.i alluded to part of the root problem in another thread;people in this very thread have, with all sincerity, advised those troubled by wardecs to \"go rat or mine in null\" because it's safer there. of course nullsec isn't intrinsically safer! it's riskier in 50 ways! such safety as exists in null exists purely because the level of risk is such that the inhabitants have no other option than to work together and put effort into measures to make it be safer. the better organised and better led ones are more successful, and their miners, ratters and builders operate in a measure of safety.contrariwise, the situation in hi-sec is that hi-sec is statistically so safe that the overhead of providing safety to one another is so cripplingly high that virtually no-one bothers to do it. if you're making, i don't know, t2 invulns for 2 mill*, and getting a 250k isk margin on each one, then it is evidently foolish to 'spend' (whether in time, isk, opportunity cost, higher mats costs, whatever) 150k isk per unit on protecting your production and transport operation when there's only a 3% loss rate due to hostile action. doing nothing costs you 60k per unit, protecting yourself costs you 150k. however, when that 3% is taken, it's not taken as just a lower overhead on each sale, it's taken all at once as a whole week's production gets ganked because you didn't warp your hauler to a jita 4-4 instadock or whatever. and when the situation arises, there's absolutely nothing you can do about it. it's an \"unfair\" situation to the gankee in the sense that it's \"unfair\" that a pair of 3s will always lose to 4 jacks, even if the dude with the pair decided to bet a gsc full of t2 mods on his hand on the basis that the other guy folded on the previous 48 rounds.despite having watched ccp repeatedly nerf non-consensual pvp in hi-sec since almost the day i started, i have not seen any drop in the number of complaints about non-consensual pvp in hi-sec. that's because reducing the incidence doesn't make the occurrence any more acceptable to the guy it happens to. in fact it makes it less acceptable, because every such nerf makes it less worth taking any precautions, inevitably meaning that the actual encounter is perceived as even more unfair, provoking even more passionate complaints.that's why \"one more nerf\" will never fix the problem. each nerf makes the problem worse.*i can't remember what t2 invulns actually cost right this second, and cba looking it up. figures are for illustrative purposes only."
"yup.it is really an issue of incentives. people who do not want to pvp present a serious challenge to anyone who wants to \"fix\" the war dec system. how do you create an incentive for people to do something they do not want to do and have at least one avenue to select to let them avoid what they do not want to do?regarding the rate of incidence and nerfing there may be yet another effect as well. by making ganking less frequent it also becomes more shocking to those it happens too, especially if they have joined after a round of nerfs. this shock may lead them to the forums to clamor for yet more nerfs.people who do not face these aspects of the problem are doomed to failure.this is why i say that trying to \"fix\" war decs is a fools errand. you cannot fix it with a structure or some other nonsense until you address the underlying incentive problem."
"has ccp updated the de-spawn time of wrecks off the grid ?maybe even in line with the security rating of the system it is in ?my findings along with another are that the wrecks de-spawn faster.source:"
"they certainly can't be \"fixed\" with stuff like tinkering with how many simultaneous wardecs a corp can have. that's a silly nerf that entirely misses the point. the only number of allowable wardecs that the squirrels will accept is zero."
"i joined eve just over two years ago, i can still clearly remember the first couple of weeks trying to grasp what eve is about and what i wanted to do in it......but: in regards the the original post on attracting new players and then retaining them i think one major point is constantly overlooked and is probably a more important deciding factor in both cases. cost!i am in my 40's and financially very comfortable, perhaps that's why i appreciate the cost v reward. eve seems to have a core player base that can easily justify wasting large amounts of real life monies disproportional to what most people would consider a acceptable amount to pay for what is after all just a game.not even comparing eve to its competitors,, looking at it as a single entity, what do you get for your money...for 1 subscription you get 1 character, with a possibility to increase this to 3 with either more real life cash or from successful in game isk making (this costs your time, and i can assure you this is priceless and non refundable)this character can do bugger all until you have played and payed for the game long enough to have learned some basic skills, with the constant pressure to get more so you can fly/use better. all the while you can get attacked at any point and loose everything in and equipped to your ship. to top that, you find out quickly that this is the accepted eve ethos, like it or p**s off!all this is set within a backdrop of a false sandbox concept full of walls and rules that favors mob rule and loss over gain.not only do you pay ccp for your time in game, you need to pay them consistently to keep the skills points flowing and pay them more to have more than one character doing the same.for this you the right to slowly learn skills while under constant and actively endorsed threat of aggression. so in essence, you have to pay to play, pay to keep playing, pay to play more and pay to loose your stuff you payed to get! ...but that's ok, you can pay more for a plex to sell to get some more in game monies to loose more stuff.no sensible right minded person would accept this, those of us that play eve are simply mental, and this cesspool of over privileged and unpleasantly aggressive nutters will never be attractive to a mainstream audience. i for one would be very concerned if it was."
"generally agreed. additionally, with the tightening of areas where the \"mainstream\" player types had traditionally found their homes in eve ... there's simply less room for them to have their play style. say what you want about what the sandbox is, how it should operate, and where the rules and the players must adjust to one another ... the bottom line of the conversation is still: how badly has eve been hemorraging players over the last handful of years and can it regrow the playerbase if the current environment is maintained?i would argue that, clearly, ccp has created a massivly successful new revenue stream in the form of skill injectors, but i would also argue that such additional revenue streams are commonly created out of necessity. if ccp didn't feel the squeeze of loss, then they wouldn't be inclined to allow this thing which they've shunned for so long (i.e., quick skill points for a price) because it's a form of power creep leading ever-closer to a pay-to-win game. so, even knowing they grudgingly shuffled a half-step closr to a pay-to-win environment, they bent to the demands of the playerbase because they knew the additional revenue would do them some good. let them deny it if they want, but i'll still argue it's the truth.ultimately, ccp is, without possibility of debate, losing more customers than they're gaining because the game envornment is shifting based on rules changes. i would argue this is much worse than \"catering\" to \"whiners\" by not permitting highsec to become lowsec for a section of the players who tend to stick to highsec and generally not bother anybody because they want to run minnig lasers and just be chatty for a little while. let war be in highsec as an intermittent kick in the pants to get people to wake up, but don't let it basically be there in the form of spamming wars without any reason other than the people spamming wars can't be bothered to go fight in low-/nullsec where there's a level of risk over which they have no control. the irony of this problem is the aggressors discussed in this topic are manipulating the concord safety net which has historically been relied upon by those who just flat-out can't accept constantly being at war ... and that is how ccp has failed to enable a significant section of their customers' expectations to be fulfilled regardless of what highsec \"should\" be.if ccp wants to increase their subscription numbers again, then they'll have to make another change which permits casual non-aggressive players to have some breathing room while also operating as player corporations ... at least in highsec. if not, well, then the game can be what ccp wants it to be, albeit with fewer whiners roaming the stars. there's the chance, however, that all of this is by design: if ccp wanted to filter out what generally amounted to non-pvp players from the game and knew they couldn't survive the economit hit unless they created a new form of income ... then this would fit that mold. honestly, however, i see injectors as a reaction/accomodation rather than a part of a plan.many of us are painfully aware of the debacles of years-past where previous sets of management basically ignored problems players declared needed to be addressed. incarna is a pretty strong example. on the other hand, ccp seagull has made it her personal crusade to not only save eve by seeing that features are complete when added, but that swaths of existing sicknesses are removed from the game and replaced with something better. for that, seagull, i salute you. keep kicking ass and don't ever stop pushing the future vision.highsec is pvp-restricted, but not enough to convince tens of thousands of players to continue playing ... and the rub is that, for years, ccp has been trying to push people to get out into nullsec and fight wars over space and resources, partly by making highsec less attractive by being less safe than it once was. this push has had very little success as measured by the number of players in various security levels of space.in conclusion, one or two things are happening. opton 1, ccp is actively promoting an environment whereby these players remove themselves from the game because these players are \"ruining\" what the game was designed to be: a system of rules which encourages lawlessness. option 2, ccp has failed to comprehend the expectations they've set and are now denying any accommodation to the players who are leaving in droves because both sides are acting on their incomplete understandings. both options are likely, and both would lead to what's going on. there is no third option ... but there is a chance of both options being true."
"errr...no. you clearly have a job, so you clearly have a price for your time.actually, it is not that hard to make isk, imo."
"okay, but here is the thing. these problems are a result of changes ccp has made. for example, making war decs more expensive. this was a common request for those getting decced. they probably thought: if it more expensive they won't be able to deck me. which is true given a very restrictive assumption. that assumption is ceterius paribus, or more commonly known as all other things equal. but in life all other things are rarely if ever constant. there was nothing to stop those who utilize the war dec mechanic from responding via some other dimension. so many of these corporations formed alliances and got bigger. this enabled them to afford the war dec costs whereas smaller corps/alliances could not.so those complaining about the costs of war decs are left frustrated because they are still getting decced and it seems like nothing has changed. the problem is the people advocating for these changes just do not understand things like economics. while their reasoning was correct given the ceterius paribus assumption that assumption was something they did not fully understand or appreciate. this is a problem for many people when it comes to economics, and this issue is clearly an economic one...when you try to design something based on prices, costs, etc., then you are talking economics.an additional change was the removal of the watchlist. this made it very difficult to engage in \"targeted war decs\". and a natural response to this was to utilize mass war decs and then camp/roam pipes between trade hubs and camping trade hub stations.so these two changes led to more use of \"mass war decs\". so in part, those complaining about war decs...well they got what they asked for and it bit them in the ass. this happens quite a bit in economics because what looks like the obvious answer to something fails to take into account that we are talking about people who can change their behavior in response to policy change. so it is tremendously ironic that we are still here talking about war decs and that those who utilize such mechanics for content can have as many as 200 war decs at any given time.i suggest people look at my signature and consider that it applies very much to this game. you may think you know how some change you advocate will work out, but in the end you probably don't."
"might as well just eliminate high sec.... might as well eliminate small corps...an while we'r at it might as well eliminate any form of structure. because unless you got your head up your *** or you just don't play you would see that these mass wardec are destroying the moral of new players. they can't pvp they don't have the money .... they don't have the skills but yet they are being hunted by 5 man mercs squads that have been playing since 2009 sure they can hide in the stations like cowards. who's going to renew a subscription with that to look forward too .... an fyi thats exaxtly what they'r saying."
"just stay off the trade pipes and out of trade hub systems. they won't go looking for you, they wait for you to come to them.alternatively stay in an npc corp until you have more sp, isk and exprience.or try eve uni to pick up the knowledge on how to fight back."
"i have a beter idea why not fix the problem......limits the amount of wardec a corp can have, an limitt the number of wardec a corp can have on them. i mean seriously three active wardec on a mining corp that has 6 active mebers and 5 of em been playing less than 2 months. i mean seriously do we not see thisis a issue thats not going to go away an is spiraling out of control???"
"would you feel better if you had only 1 war going? you would fight then? or would your next step be to demand that they not be able to declare a war unless it is even?why not just demand removing war altogether?the dead swans lay in the stagnant pool. they lay. they rotted. they turned around occasionally. bits of flesh dropped off them from time to time. and sank into the pool's mire. they also smelt a great deal."
"option a: come to nullsec.option b: close current corp, remake a new one with the same name. let wardeccers waste money on corporations that no longer exist.you don't have to join eve university or karmafleet or pandemic horde, however newbie friendly they tell you they are. you could go browse the alliance/corporation recruitment forums and find a group you like. i do however advise you avoid the corporations that offer new chars 5-xx mil for them to join. they just want numbers and won't do anything good for you in the long run.and don't get swayed away from how you want to play the game by people who tell you how you should be playing it.that's what eve is. an opportunity around every corner. \"pvp\" as many people call it - i'll get to high sec pvp later - isn't the be all end all activity in eve. you could mine, kill npc rats, run missions (the two aren't necessarily the same), do exploration activities, participate in wormhole, lowsec or nullsec activities, be in trading, production, intelligence, relations, diplomacy. it's up to you and people you don't trust to make your game time worthwhile.you can also change the way you play the game. push up the stakes. leave the trendy low-proffit cesspool of highsec and venture into lowsec, nullsec or wormhole space. there are plenty people out there who will happily extend you their hand for some fresh blood to swell their ranks without empty promises and an eye on your meager posessions.if you enjoy something, do it. but at the same time, be understanding that your way of play might not be directly comparable to other peoples wants or needs.yeah, he could also follow that example and in response to having his family members raped, join the gang of rapists and doing it to other people (including his own) as well. stop bullshitting.yeah. way too people are addicted to shooting targets that can't shoot back because they:a: have no gunsb: die in the first volleythat, for so many people is the exhilirating adrenaline rush. shooting target dummies then bragging about it over beer with their co-players.if you want some _real_ pvp, go watch some stramers like zarvox. instead of promoting how \"you know how to play the game right.\""
"leadership v? it's a good skill to have regardless, and it seems sort of appropriate.@ the op:malcanis gave you some amazing advice, and he said it better than i could have. i will just reiterate one thing - learn how the game works. player knowledge is the only skill that isn't on the skill tree and can't be learned via skill injectors. it is also the most vital skill in the game. if you get blown up, convo the guy who did it and ask what you could have done differently. some of them will mock you, obviously, but a lot of them will offer you a pointer or two, and you gain a small measure of respect for not being a whinger about the loss. i learned more about eve from people who killed me than i ever did from fights i won.in the case of the wardec, fight back - get some cheap frigates (and insure them), and go out and shoot the guys deccing you. yes, you will probably lose. hilariously and repeatedly. that's not important. what's important is that you learn from those losses. ask for advice on improving your ability to defend yourself, not on avoiding having to.o7 good luck.eve is like an addiction; you can't quit it until it quits you. also, iderno"
"- edutainment -"
"war decs are part of the game. this is a game about player interaction often non-consensual interaction.so you are asking to change the nature of the game at a fundamental level. no."
"that will be phase 2 and 3 respectively of their plan to make eve super awesome, just like wow."
"just to be clear...how many of the people here complaining about war decs, ganks, and all these awful things that happen in the game have visited the home page for this game?this is what you will see link. it says...build your dreamswreck their dreamsthat second part...did you freaking read that when you got an account and downloaded the game?this is a game where...yeah, you can do bad things to other players in game. you can shoot them, scam them, steal from them, all sorts of things."
"i expected responces like these after all what would forums be without belittling remarks. i can deal with this issue i'v been killed an won't be the last time. i'm just here trying to represents a few new players in the game. your either hiding the issue because your apart of it or you just don't have a clue what we'r talking about. you just wait this has just began my voice may not fix thing but wait the caous this is going cause....somethings going to be changed .....watch so flame me if u wish.......zec"
"this isn't some new thing happening....it has been building for several years to reach the current level of wardec spam. many things have contributed to this buildup, including a changing playerbase and *multiple* changes to wardec mechanics - including for a brief period i believe a limit to the number of wars a group could have active at a single time much like you are proposing here...you all seem to think you are the only people playing eve who are capable of rational thought - and you are all so smug and sure of yourselves when you declare that *this* simple nerf will finally fix everything and magically bring wars back to balance.... forgive our rude answers - but we've heard it all before a million times, and even seen the in-game results of some of the suggestions like yours, and it won't do what you think it will do. lets face it - if you can't handle the wars while you out-number your attackers 10,000 to 1 and they have so many targets they can't be bothered to come looking for you.....you *really* don't want to see what happens when you only outnumber them 10 to 1 and they have nothing better to do than hunt you down and vent their frustration at how ccp keeps nerfing their play-style by making your life a living hell...the dead swans lay in the stagnant pool. they lay. they rotted. they turned around occasionally. bits of flesh dropped off them from time to time. and sank into the pool's mire. they also smelt a great deal."
"just curious, when i was new we were in war decs. we managed to deal with them. we didn't fight, but we up and moved. they didn't follow. later war decs were people who used the watchlist and locator agents we did fight back after teaming up with another corp they decced. so...why can't you do this?btw, the reason you are in the situation you are in is thanks to ccp. blanket war decs no the only thing when it comes to war decs....because of changes they have made to the game. i'm doubtful they'll find a way to make thing better for you like you think. ccp rarely does that."
"well, maybe the adrenaline rush is better when you kill people alone rather than in f1 pressing packs. heh... _real_ pvp elitism is funny. by choosing to mine in new order systems, highsec miners have agreed to follow the new halaima code of conduct. www.minerbumping.com"
"in-game mechanics like war decs mean nothing to a new player who can barely comprehend the full depth of the game. they are still trying to warp to a station or fit something on a ship. when you do eventually find out about them and what they entail they just sound like away to grief people in small corps.why would people pay money, and their time, playing a game that has such blatant disregard for their efforts and progress.eve's message is clear from from the outset to new players... \"your time and assets have no value, i want you to loose your stuff, mwaaaahahahahahahahah\"this is what eve is agreed, and you accept it or just don't play it. those of us that have chosen the former understand the risks, the later want no part in it, and wont until they have some more protection in high sec (which as it stands at present, is anything but 'highly secure' space!) as that's the only place you think you have time to react to a threat in.it's abundantly clear the percentage of gamers on this planet that this does appeal to, and do want their hard earned stuff getting stolen or lost through not consensual aggression is minuscule.people don't want to play with people that are not nice and do unpleasant things, even if you want them to."
"another thing that i ponder on in regards to the original posts question, as i would argue that eve is in fact exceedingly appealing and alluring to the potential perusing gamer (it's the keeping them that's the issue) are the questions around whether eve needs more players?it would be very interesting to hear from ccp as to what they would consider a ideal number for their player base. do they need more players? how many more players would they like? how many more players could eve support? what would be too many players?"
"riddle me this: why do we almost never see any complaints about getting shot at from players engaging in industrial or pve or pi or r&d in 0.0 or npc 0.0 or losec or w-space?and please, lets not embarrass everyone by pretending that mining/production/pi/research don't occur in those zones."
