nope, pretty sure they wouldn't! ...but a lot would, precisely
because it is actually fun for them. even though people keep
telling them it isn't.perchance, from some exotic side effect the
meaningless tunnel vision a gameplay directed entirely on the
upsetting off a new player fresh into our beloved game induces,
possibly thickasshiteitus or dumbasfuckementia, you may have
missed the broad spectrum of gameplay options that are also
available, including but not limited too, low sec, null sec, and let
us not forget ol'scarry mcweary... wormholes.however, it would
make:*1 - a lot of players happy (sh*t no! happy eve players?
surely not) *2 - more people play and subscribe to eve online!
(dare i relate to the op in this now hijacked let's defend the poor
ickle gankers post)
jolly good show old bean +1
i gotta say its nice to hear the csm really pushing hard for alliance
bookmarks
i've never heard of referred to as the safety 'bar' before, thanks for
the clarification.i understand where you're coming from, i'm just
stating that ccp seems to have hit a roadblock with their plans to
change bumping, and i don't know if it's going to happen in the
foreseeable future. i would love to see more cooperation between
smaller highsec groups but the gaps of skill and knowledge
between wardeccers and newer players is pretty large. it's part of
the reason i wanted to advocate for service advertisements so
groups could look for that help they need in potentially fighting a
wardeccer.i'm hopeful that some of the future structures coming
out may further the idea of building up a corporation or alliance's
space and hopefully create more incentive for defenders to fight...
we'll see. appreciate your questions and support! i know you poke
your head into c&p sometimes (i normally lurk there) and i'm
happy to discuss these things with people from the other side. if
you ever have any other questions feel free to drop them here or
send me a mail.toxic
hey suitonia, long time fan of your work but why of all the
alliances would you join goons in npc space instead of pl or nc.?
you do know that bigger isn't always better.
yup that's my concern, you're just another "pvp centric" csm
candidate who might not be able to add some value concerning
feedback about the pve fitting/ship meta. i'm worried that most
balance on ship in the game is focus on how ship could be usefull
in pvp (industrial excepted) without considering how those change
goes on the pve side of the ship.loyal servent to mother
amamake. @eve_tetsel
i was wondering if you could answer some questions.1. at least
one member of the current csm has stated that citadels make
moving capital ships too risk-free. as someone who not only runs
her own jump freighter service but is involved in alliance-level
logistics, do you think any changes need to be made to citadels
where long-distance hauling is concerned?2. a lot of people,
including yourself, think that planetary interaction needs to be
revamped. if elected and ccp seagull were to ask you what priority
to give a planetary interaction upgrade, what would you tell her?
should it be a high, medium, or low priority?3. ccp has made
many changes, from new structures to the recent rorqual
upgrade, designed to make null sec more self-sufficient
industrially. do you think ccp has done enough, or are there
additional changes you would like to see?4. in your thread, sullen
decimus was insulted because you didn<U+FFFD>t know about
the work that csm did concerning industry. honestly, i had not
heard anything about any work the csm did on industry (or much
of anything else) either. what do you think the csm should do to
publicize their activities better?5. as someone who concentrates
mainly in null sec, do you think you have enough experience to
be able to discuss issues outside of null sec with the developers?
thank you
you may not be here that long but you have my respect and you
do know your stuff!nice to see you here.
recruited a few corps did virtually all market stocking for at least a
year did a large amount of the jfing placed strategic jc ship caches
around had about 15 cyno alts all over eve in an alt corp with
offices everywhere pre-phoebe to get us anywhere ^ generally
just did any cyno chain with some help from a corp mate we
needed for an op was acting ceo for the last few months before it
disbanded handled all the logistics of owning sov in fountain fc'd
several supercap ops generally just backup fc'd basically just the
main "useful people" type dude for the time i was there. if you're
not familiar with how larger pvp focused groups work, the best
comparison i could give is doug stamper's character in house of
cards. logistics > support roles in fleets > backup fc in that order
roughly.they both need attention, but i'd say null sec needs it
more urgently. null sec has had a complete overhaul in the last
year and a bit, those changes now need review and iteration as
there are some major glaring issues. citadel changed a lot in w-
space, but it seems to have settled. what w-space needs is mostly
qol improvements and minor-ish tweaks to get more people into
them.ccp has various teams that work on different areas of the
game so in reality it's not an "either/or" situation. for example
there's a team that focuses in widescale game mechanics like
sovereignty and faction warfare (who's name i can't seem to
remember), and there's the recently formed team phenomenon
who work on pve. null sec needs changes to the sov system and
a lot of the main gripes in w-space are about pve. they can deal
with both at the same time.it's a pretty unfortunate situation with
no particularly great option. right now we have an enormous
amount of code and tools written on top of the xml api that we can
be pretty confident aren't going to get rewritten for esi as the
people who wrote them don't play eve anymore. for example,
evething (a sort of web-based evemon that's more focused
towards handling a lot of characters and assets rather than just
skill queues). that's a shame and as a community we'll all be
worse off for it.i can also understand the decision to deprecate
crest since there's apparently a lot of messy backend to it.what i
do think ccp fails to realise is the effect this is going to have on
developer confidence long term. the major tools like zkillboard,
evemon, pyfa/eft, will all get updated no problem, but for smaller
projects like the various alliance auth systems, my own tools, etc,
it severely dents our confidence in ccp to build a coherent, long
term and backward compatible api system. the direct comparison
i'd draw would be that to microsoft switching their direction for gui
applications every few years and leaving all code written for the
old one totally in the dirt.the one criticism i'd have of the esi api is
it cuts up information way to broadly. this is inconvenient for
developers and also creates a straw for this own back. for
example the location api you call to get a player's current system
has 2 seperate calls. one for the location and one for the ship.
why? there's tons of examples like this.as long as ccp stick with
esi, it's a good system. the only major issue is a lack of
confidence they won't. just speaking personally that's an area i'd
have to defer to others. i've been been a big fan of primarily pve
games. online multiplayer is what has always attracted me to
every game i've played, so i feel like this is probably the one area
i don't have much to contribute. i'm sort of okay with the current
situation where it's basically risk/reward poker, but i can see why
others wouldn't be and i'd be all for any improvements that still
allowed me to spend the majority of time engaging with other
players rather than red crosses.
well if you remember the open letter i wrote, there were 3 main
concerns i had.1) they won't generate large scale content as
capitals wouldn't be required to hit them.2) ^ this would also leave
capitals without any real role in the game.3) moon mining is huge
top down source of income that funds the activities for a large
number of alliances.the first concern has been alleviated, to be
quite frank, because i overestimated the average player. i'd spent
a lot of time pitting individual or very small groups of capitals
against optimally fit astrahuses and fortizars. primarily because a
well fit astrahus, and especially fort have no problem killing a
cheaply fit dread or carrier. also the fact the standup void bombs
are pretty blatently overpowered. the vast, vast majority of
citadels in the game seem to badly or entirely unfit and can't do
this. against more experienced groups, it seems like you can just
drop more capitals than are really required and write off any
losses as just the cost of doing business. the fight is usually
decided before the fight even starts.to the second concern, i'd
simply refer you to this blog post i wrote a few weeks ago. the tl;dr
would be that capitals now have a fleet role that allows them to be
directly effective against subcaps meaning they are now just
another step in the cruiser > bc > bs > carrier > etc progression.to
the third concern, we've still not seem drilling platforms yet so
there's not much to comment on. i would note however that the
prices of r64 materials has absolutely plummeted over the last
year, reducing their value immensely. i'd say that's definitely a
bad thing, but the effect of it is that we've largely lost r64s as a
content generator anyway regardless of what ccp do with drilling
platforms.
"they both need attention, but i'd say null sec needs it more
urgently. null sec has had a complete overhaul in the last year
and a bit, those changes now need review and iteration as there
are some major glaring issues. "like what specifically?
definitly a "big" +1 from my sidethere are not many players in this
game which have such a knowledge about the game and also the
outcome of changes to a 0.0 etininty in eve online
nerf super's blobs and you will have my +1oh w8 m8
rodewalker, i'll respond when i get home from the summit :)
your aura will illuminate this plebs council and will bring the right
swag it needs.it might be possible to implement the necklace and
earings offer? i'd really love some gold-plated jewelllery to show
thous plebs who's the boss.
update 1/02: headquarter housingi will work with ccp to fully
exploit the potential of the headquarter. today: -> four race, four
interior designs -> same interior design for everyone-> no skin, no
housingmy ideas: 1. for an extra 2.99 dollars by interior design
pack on the new eden store, the possibilities are infinite, some
suggestions: -> cowboy interior design pack-> dust 514 interior
design pack-> world of darkness interior design pack-> project
nova interior design packfor an extra 4.99 dollars, we could
imagine special edition interior design packs from movies, artists,
ea games, ubisoft games, etc.2. special events could drop
faction/deadspace special edition rare interior design packsthanks
for the support. i heard your suggestions, give me time to answer
properly.
the hilmar penthouse interior pack is need, with extra hunting
trophies of dead body on the wall including the incarna rip trophy,
a dust bunny head and a vampire head.could buy some cool
exlusive poster wall (like movie one) at the nes like the "incarna
cancelled", the "ccp deliver" one, or "the legacy code strike back"
etc etc -ad nauseam-loyal servent to mother amamake.
@eve_tetsel
so many rumours =/
can you specifically cite what are rumors on here? again you are
generalizing overall comments as "rumors" you also have not
answered or provided any ideas of your own to support your
campaign "ideals".this "campaign" is nothing more, but a further
troll by you.
being banned from twitter is an example of one of the rumors
posted here.i simply do not have time to cite them all.
just because you can make a simplistic assertion like the above
doesn't make it true. there is no evidence that a large number of
people want to play a no-one-can-lose version of eve with all the
conflict drained from it. in fact, when ccp started to move in that
direction and buff highsec safety and rewards is when growth in
the game stalled and the pcu started to decline. even though this
argument that giving people safety will make ccp rich is raised all
the time, no one has been able to explain why ccp should double
down on this strategy when all the numbers say it doesn't work.
the much more likely explanation is all this safety just bores
people out of the game. if you made highsec completely safe, you
would completely remove much of the demand for players to
gather and build things. in a game where your output is almost
completely consumed by other players, those players need
motivation to give you their isk. if everything is so easily available
and immune to disruption, they just aren't going to need it and the
game stagnates. i have no doubt there is a tiny fraction of players
that just play to accumulate stuff, never interacting with other
players who take satisfaction in just watching their wallet and loot
hoard get bigger. however, most industrial-minded players play to
service the demands of other players and play and compete in the
giant single economy of the game. if you nerf the demand out of
the economy by making pvp consensual and removing the
competition out of the game by giving players a safe space they
can all use to generate resources with no risk, you remove the
meaning for much of what players do in this game. even hardcore
pvpers only spend a fraction of their game time directly
participating in space combat, but the demand created by that
fuels so much of reason for players log in and to do stuff. eve
online has lasted almost 15 years by ignoring the constant short-
sighted calls to let players opt-out of the conflict and competition
that is the life-blood of the game. what astonishes me the most
about threads like this is that there are players that continually try
to get ccp to do so. ccp knows what type of game they designed,
and the perils of too much safety, and while they have tried the
strategy of making highsec safer, it has clearly failed to spike the
pcu, putting the final nail in the coffin of any movement to turn
eve from a pvp sandbox into a standard theme park mmo.
perhaps it is time for the pendulum to swing back the other way
and for ccp to inject a little more risk into the game?
csms,since you're meeting with ccp right now any chance you
might get them to look into this:raitaru lab service are not
functioningi realize this isn't affecting everyone but if you've got it,
it's aids!
moved to player feature and ideas.
this account linking suggestion is something that will improve this
game immensely and break the hold of the big entities, it is
something that i have wanted for a long time as i have seen too
many examples of spy alts destroying interesting new groups with
dynamic leaders by easy to do theft and intel that enables major
groups to take or destroy their major assets.in effect there are two
ways to push account linking, the first would be to enable any
character combination on the linked accounts, the second would
be a discounted rate as compared to separate un-linked accounts,
be it reduced price for paid subscription or more game time with
plex.as an overall point of view the small more independent
minded players have been penalised continuously in this game
and it would be good to see their views get listened too instead of
the big blocks.the issue here is quite clear, if big wig in pl/goon
uses an alt to scam someone how can his actions ever have
consequences if you have no idea who did it as he used a throw
away account, i have the capability to go off after someones main
if i really want to, but hiding behind unlinked accounts makes for
stale gameplay, this also applies to afk cloaky camping, as i know
who is doing it i can go after them too. it is a truly annoying part of
the game that there are no consequences. blocked: teckos pech,
sonya corvinus, baltec1, shae tadaruwa, wander prian, daichi
yamato, jonah gravenstein, merin ryskin, linus gorp
could you expand a bit on these statements. which areas do you
feel have become to safe? which mechanics need to be harsher?
which play styles could do with a bit more danger?
sorry, but this post says enough about your campaign. you're
either gonna stand for all of us or you don't run at all.
how exactly are you quantifying "a lot".exactly how do you know
more people will subscribe and play?eve is not terribly fun when
played like one would play wow. you don't even need to team up
to run missions. most people can run missions by themselves. so
the teamwork one finds in wow or other such games is not
needed in eve.what makes eve interesting is the competition
between players. what you suggests is removing that....based on
nothing.
it's not 100% true though.when i was new and young (2-4 months
into the game back in 2010) i used to run lvl4 missions with loose
group of players. it was just bunch of randoms from jel local who
could make a fleet and run missions joining/leaving at any
moment. at that point i had no 'proper' skills and ship (i was flying
myrmidon with bunch of meta/t2 stuff, later i switched to dominix
with t1 medium railguns). and teaming up was my natural choice.i
believe nothing had really changed since then. new players still
have to collect skills and missions are still difficult enough to make
teaming work. i guess your 'most people' stands for older, skilled
and rich players. but even players younger than 1 year would
benefit from teaming up for missions.
i would love for ccp to make one constelation 100% safe. limited
resources a couple of level 4 agents and nothing much else to do.
it would not impact the game all that much. the people who want
that kind of space get it. and we can all put this argument to bed
forever. the boring people can just hang out in those couple of
systems and circlejerk all day long while the rest of use can go
and shoot ships in peace.
perhaps you should re-read what i wrote. i did not say it is not
going to ever happen, simply that it is not needed. if a player
wants to simply play eve by running missions he does not need to
do it with a team. he can go start grinding standings and take the
time to get the isk and sp to run higher level missions. whereas in
things like wow it seems that teamwork is a necessity.further,
given the nature of eve teamwork is a strategy with low utilization.
that is, people in eve are quite distrustful because if you have a
valuable fit, there is indeed your "loose group of players" might
turn around and gank you and take your stuff. can't really do that
in wow. imagine what would happen in wow if you could turn on
other players and after killing them take their stuff.
go play in rookie systems or the test server then.and the irony
that you "want to shoot ships" but are pissed that other players
want to shoot your ships. perhaps you don't quite get the
underlying nature of the game. here let me put it simply:so long
as i am willing to accept the consequences i can shoot you
anywhere i want in game.those consequence maybe from npcs
(e.g. if i use ewar on you in a mission the rats will start attacking
me, or it could be concord). the consequences may be from other
players. if i awox you the other corp members will likely do their
best to blow up my ship and pod. i'll also likely be kicked from the
corporation and made kos. that is the nature of eve you are never
really truly safe.
i remember back in 2011 we have had 'library' in our 0.0-based
corporation. this was a collection of skillbooks under 10mil price
freely available for any corporation member.i have never heard
about similar things since then....
-option to disable double click open space/target to
move/approach, option to replace movement with other [ie:
ctrl+shift+click]-option to disable or replace hotkeys in system and
directional scanner, or change the overview tabs that are pulled
into d-sca
press release 02/03/2017don't miss open coms tonight!

i was wondering if you could answer a few questions.1. i read on
the forums that you believe force auxiliaries are too powerful. do
you believe this is the case only in wormholes, or in k-space as
well? what changes would you propose to fix the ship class?2.
usually when players talk about adding a new type of bookmark,
they refer to alliance bookmarks. you mentioned adding fleet
bookmarks instead. why do you believe that adding fleet
bookmarks is more important than adding alliance bookmarks?3.
the vast majority of your forum posts, at least over the past 2-3
months, concern trying to recruit members to your corporation. do
you think ccp offers enough tools for corp recruiters? if no, what
changes would you like ccp to make to make recruiters lives
easier?4. you indicated you have been a director or better in
wormhole groups for the last 5 years. what types of tasks did you
perform or were responsible for as a director?5. you have a lot of
ideas for holding events to get feedback from players. one of
csm<U+FFFD>s problems is publicizing what they do. how would
you improve the visibility of the csm so players know about the
events you wish to hold?thank you
sofar i like most of your idees john.as multiple people all ready
stated changing the cyno inhibitors is not a good idea if you ask
me so i hope you will dropp that idea.i like you'r way off talking
and by the sound of it you know you'r direction as whit all politics
you can't aggree on everything so i will give my vote to the person
that comes the closset to my opinions and is pro wh and sofar
thats you. so keep up the good work and thank for willing to give
wormhollers a voice.
suitonia is a legendary eve player and as such would make a
great csm as he has fingers in many pies, contacts, friends, and
knows the community inside out. my favorite thing about him, and
the reason i believe he would be great is that he is someone who
has achieved much status without being overtly political or having
a trace of ego, a really hard thing to do in this game. he has
friends with all factions within eve (he does take sides, but has
never indicated to me that he holds any grudges), and not many
people can say that.i have also worked with him a lot on multiple
evesports projects and he has always been reliable and given
consistently top-notch analysis of pvp mechanics - he is the best
technical analyst i have worked with and has an incredible
capacity to remember all of the abilities of subcapital ships and
modules in the game, and how they interact with each other. this
is another fantastic reason he would make a great csm.+1 from
me and all my alts.
go yumene! you can do it! i believe in you! <3
with the summit over (the minutes are in progress, and will
hopefully be with you within a fortnight or so) the election season
is now in full swing.that's why i'm here to ask you to consider
voting for me. with three terms under my belt, i have a good
handle on the duties and responsibilities involved. as such, i'm
not going to tell you "i'm going to make ccp make this change",
because that's not what the csm does. anyone who does promise
you a change, is either lying to you, or completely misunderstands
the csm.what i am going to do is tell you the areas in the game i'm
suited to giving advice to ccp. the interest groups that i
understand and will represent. third party development industry
highsec in general. mining (and other resource gathering such as
pi, gas reactions and so on) i'm seriously plugged into the third
party community, providing resources and tools to other
developers and the wider eve community (
reservedfirst edit:contact options:@fuzzysteve on
twitter@fuzzysteve on tweetfleet slacksteve@fuzzysteve.co.uk by
email (steve.ronuken@fuzzwork.enterprises works too, but the
forums don't link it right)/u/fuzzmiester on redditevemail works
too.
thanks for your hard work in previous csms. after three terms i
think you should consider not running.
i did consider it. however, i'm not close to burn out, and i feel i still
have good feedback to pass to ccp.the institutional knowledge
that builds up is valuable (not just from myself, but other
members running again), letting newcomers skip some of the start
up phase.
here is an article i wrote about some of the items mentioned in my
platform.
sers internet spaceship pilots.my name is leyanora varkain,
currently director in the alliance it's only pixels and ceo of the corp
special assault unit. i have been playing eve for almost 4 years
while living in null for most of the time.a short overview about the
alliances / coalitions i have been with so far:2013 insidious
empire2014 living in lowsec after beeing a short time with
v.e.g.a.2015 gentlemen's club2016 it's only pixels while beeing
with vanguard coalitionso bottom line is: i enjoy fleet pvp the most
but i am not that much into large blobby fights with a ton of tidi. i
like gangs where every member has a chance to actually play the
game instead of just beeing a pure "anchor up and press f1"
pilot.about half of the time i am out in space i like sitting in a logi
ship of all sizes. i enjoy flying frigate, cruiser and capital-size logi.
my priorities for csm xii are- change the current state of sov
warfare in nullsec (make sov great again!)- work the gap between
cruiser and capital logistics- build a wall around delve and have
mittens pay for itso why am i exactly running for csm. there was
this "incident" at eve amsterdam 2016 where i tried to talk to a
certain ccp dev (hint: one that is often refered to the current state
of sov mechanics) and all i got was "blabla political blabla". that
got me pretty upset. i totally understand that some random guy
wont get a solid plan of what will change and what ccp is currently
looking into but it left me very unsatisfied and i chose to take a
chance of actually change it and work on it to actually work on the
major downsides of the current sov mechanics.
--- reserved ----
i support this ballbag!
i like
hell yeahwhat a great guy!!!
build that wall!
i vouch for him and think he would be a good choice ;)
ley woop woop
ley is one of the most experienced and competent combat logi
pilots i've ever met. he deserves to have his pvp ideas heard and i
know that he will provide important insights into the sov system
based on the last two years of our constant wars that ccp needs
to hear
endorsed.ariel's been a pillar of the autz and having worked and
played with him i know he's got the chops to deliver good things
and will be a great representative on the csm.eve down under - a
community for players in the autz
i will miss the open comms on the mittani.com twitch tonight. sorry
for all the people who are following me. i will be there next
time.thanks for the great feedbacks.
today ccp has published updates about the csm.reducing the
number of representatives from 14 to 10 is one aspect, that will
make it even more difficult for independent candidates to make it
through the stv-based vote process.but the main change is a
change of philosophy. the white paper stated"ccp<U+FFFD>s
vision... the council is included in the development process to
ensure that feedback and opinions from eve online players are
brought to the attention of the development team and that
viewpoints from members of the eve community across all
demographics of play style are represented and heard."i entered
the csm arena two years ago because i felt my play-style was not
represented, features were nerfed to favor other play-styles, and
the interests of the power players were always trumping those
with alternative play-styles. the game is supposed to be a
sandbox after all, so campaigning to lobby for the play-style i
favor the most seemed logicial when reading ccp's vision about
the csm at the time. i proudly stepped up to defend mine, hoping
that i was not be the only player that was engaging with the game
this way.today, the csm vision statement has been reduced to"the
csm brings focused, structured feedback from the community to
ccp and represents its views and interests." (*)up until now, i was
advocating that csm should represent the largest possible breadth
of differenciated play-styles. this update clearly state that this is
not anymore what ccp needs. the csm members are there to
focus and structure the feedback from the community at large, the
greater good for the greater player base.as such i have decided,
as a player, to retire from this campaign. in the same way that i
know none of the previous csm has really represented me, i do
not know how to represent the community in general rather than
the play-style i am familiar with the most. i am not a bullshit
politician, and i am not after free omega account and free trip to
iceland.of course, i want to thanks all those that supported my
fight.this toon has been specifically created to be a public figure.
as such i am going to put this toon for sale in the character
bazaar between now and feb 15th, in case anyone more suited
than me to "brings focused, structured feedback from the
community to ccp and represents its views and interests" would
be interested to pick up this campaign and register to run with
him. (*) as a note, the same url also stated at some point"the
purpose of the csm is to represent society interests to ccp. this
requires active engagement with the player community to master
eve issue awareness, understanding, and evaluation in the
context of the greatest good for the greater player base."
you will stand in line and do as you're told lowclass pleb.
hello.i'm just another wh dweller. i've been playing for a bit more
than 3 years, and i've got a chance to experience most of the eve,
starting from high-sec mining to wh capital escalations(rip). chose
me as your csm and we will finally have a wh voice in csm who
doesn't have his main in pl.fly safe o/.edit: yeah, i'm from inner
hell, the biggest russian wh corp there is that's been killing goons
in their rorquals.

solid candidacy, would vote.
closed.
hello all,i am writing today to announce my decision to run again
for csm, having arrived home from the last summit happy that i've
done as i set out to do there. i feel as though i have both achieved
and learnt a lot within csm xi, and hope that you will consider me
for re-election, so that i can continue to work with ccp as a
representative of the community. what are my goals?my goals are
<U+FFFD> probably to no surprise to those who know me
<U+FFFD> nothing to do with specific changes. i don<U+FFFD>t
see that as a major part of the duties of the csm, and
i<U+FFFD>ve attempted to correct that belief where i can. it is in
my view, the job of the csm to first and foremost investigate what
the fundamental problems are, then to present this to ccp.but,
what i wish to do within my second term is much the same as i
have already done;- promote iteration on stagnant features-
provide consistent, neutral communication & transparency from
the csm- ensure that as many points of view are brought to the
table in discussions- argue for an increase in balancing velocity-
continue to drive the csm-ccp relationship in a positive
directionand, if you vote for me, these are the things i will continue
to work on.what have i done?the strongest of arguments come
with evidence, so i would like to simply share what i have done in
csm 11 towards these goals,i have taken attendance (with the aid
of the judge) on almost every csm meeting that occurred during
csm 11<U+FFFD>s term, to ensure that people are able to see
what their representatives are doing, and hold them accountable.
it should be noted that this is not the be-all end-all of metrics, but
it is a step towards transparency in the csm.alongside this, i have
consistently produced a fortnightly csm update, which has
evolved as time has gone on from a very basic stating of
discussion topics, to a more fleshed out attempt to archive what
we are doing as best as possible within the nda, providing a
catalyst for community discussion with us on various topics of
interest.i also direct <U+FFFD> along with other members of the
csm <U+FFFD> the quarterly review, wherein every member of
the csm is given a platform to answer various questions and
ensure that they are kept in touch with the community.i have over
the course of my term, also put together a series of roundtables
addressing topics that i felt the csm simply lacked <U+FFFD> at
the current time <U+FFFD> the knowledge to fairly portray to ccp.
this includes two roundtables on hisec ganking from both the
aggressor and defenders side (the recordings of which were kept
confidential upon the wishes of both parties), wardecs (co-led by
toxic yaken) and the new player experience. in addition to this i
also ran a pve townhall, and participated in noobman<U+FFFD>s
excellent wormhole townhall. i also suggested, ran and provided a
final consensus from a nullsec content creators focus group. i
have also been able to write and podcast extensively, taking a
less neutral tack when discussing my own opinions on upcoming
changes or problem areas within the game. a good example of
this would be my <U+FFFD>safeties off, gloves off<U+FFFD>
article, which i believe had an impact on the overall
implementation of alpha clones, seeing as it highlighted the issues
with the <U+FFFD>x omega + 1 alpha<U+FFFD> argument that
the community was making at the time in the context of hisec
ganking.i was heavily supportive of hyde<U+FFFD>s stance on
balance frequency, and <U+FFFD> as shown in the 1st csm
summit notes <U+FFFD> was heavily involved in the discussion
around not balance particulars, but ccp<U+FFFD>s incredibly
slow rate in dealing with problem ships within the meta, which
leads to what i term a calcification of the meta, where something
is so strong for so long, that every counter is explored, known,
and solved. after this point, the meta grows stale, and quite
frankly, boring.i consider the rewrite to the whitepaper involving
csm 11, as opposed to csm 10 who were mostly excluded from
the proceedings, a key indicator of the trust and co-operation that
we were able to bring to ccp-csm relations this year. and all of
csm 11 were crucial in achieving that, so i cannot take much
credit here, but i<U+FFFD>d like to note it at least.unfortunately, i
am not at liberty to say what things i<U+FFFD>ve worked to
highlight to ccp in terms of stagnant features, due to my own
squeamishness at the edges of the nda, and the sad reality that
simply nothing may come of my efforts, as it may not be
something ccp are able to fit into their schedule, or justify
addressing from a business perspective. however, i would hope
that my fellow csm 11 members will be able to vouch for me
addressing a wide range of topics with the intent of starting
meaningful conversations with ccp on them.
what do i know?in addition to this track record of communication
and work within the csm, i also bring my own areas of subject
expertise to the table. i have a solid understanding of both fleet
command and the larger picture of warfare in new eden, as can
be seen in various formats in my non-csm related writings on
crossing zebras, and in the video content i produce on my
personal channel. i<U+FFFD>m also familiar with solo pvp,
specifically in faction warfare space, as can be seen in my solo
pvp movies. i also use things other than frigates in nullsec solo
pvp.i also have a broad range of experiences that i bring to the
table, having tried out the vast majority of careers in eve before
settling down in my current position in providence as an fc,
running the gamut from mining, reaction farming, incursion fcing
& pi work, all in varying spaces.how to contact meif you have any
questions, feel free to ask them here. however, if you want to talk
to me more extensively or privately, i am available on a wide
range of social media;@jintaaneve on twitter@jintaan on
tweetfleet slackjin<U+FFFD>taan//sanctity [cva]#9801 on
discordjintaaneve@gmail.com is my email/u/jintaan on redditand,
of course, you can directly mail me in game.thank you for your
time, and more importantly, thank you for your interest in the csm.
reserved for q&a/endorsements.
* bangs stein on table repeatedly ** rousing murmur of huzzahs
from the crowd *
super strong endorsement for my podcast cohost, favorite 0.0 war
analyst, and tireless community rep jin'taan
+1 from me
you had me at hello
i've heard you never sleep. thanks for being a strong
representative for not only nullsec but also a lot of other generally
overlooked gameplay. your community outreach, projects, and
communication for csm xi has been stellar. you deserve all the
votes.
quality memer
i will be voting for jin. you should too.
strong candidate that'll rank high on my vote"face the enemy as a
solid wall for faith is your armor and through it, the enemy will find
no breach wrap your arms around the enemy for faith is your fire
and with it, burn away his evil"
no longer live see below link *edit
awesome! i'm glad to hear that people actually like what i'm
saying, i really want to be a voice for not just the wormhole
community, but the entire eve community at large. i have a lot of
interesting and thought provoking ideas i'd love to put forward and
even if they don't get implemented, i just want to foster discussion
on things.
i'm more than willing to listen to feedback from pve players, my
passion is not pve and i don't presume to speak for them. if a
change to a ship would cause serious concerns for pve then i
would argue for them. goonswarm is a well organised alliance
and i'm having fun flying with them. i'm a pretty prolific corp
hopper though and i've been in pl, test, cva before too! i don't want
to be in the "best" elite pvp alliance for the sake of being in the
"best" alliance. i'm more of a solo guy with my own friends in a
bunch of different alliances and i don't pick sides or hold
grudges.thanks for all the kind words so far friends. contributer to
eve is easy:
hi, i am xenuria. i have arms. i also have an extensive education
in psychology and behavioral analysis. while on csm 11 i used my
diverse subject matter expertise to help ccp on their npe, branding
and even some aspects of community development. i am running
for re-election and would appreciate your vote. last season i had
some really nice endorsements from people like minerbumping,
/r/eve and several other communities. i was even placed on the
imperium ballot. this season there are only 10 csm spots up for
grabs and this is going to change the math of how many votes an
outsider like me needs to be elected. i won't lie to you, there is a
very real chance i do not get re-elected. many people voted for
me because they were told that i was some horrible monstrous
person that would end up being a cumbersome pest to ccp. i
didn't end up communicating in csm sessions through interpretive
dance like reddits suggested i would and i didn't run around ccp
offices naked like certain other websites proclaimed with
certainty. they voted for me to troll ccp and instead i put serious
effort into a position that i care deeply about. my autism helps me
see things differently, examine them without bias and motivates
me to push myself. for somebody who has trouble with social
interaction, i think i did a pretty good job this term.if you vote for
me again and i am elected, i will continue my efforts to reform the
csm and advocate for a increasingly better new player
experience. if you don't trust me or don't think you should vote for
me, or vote at all; ask somebody you trust what they think. there
is a surface to all this, a thin nebulous thing that obscures deeper
insights. i am actually a orb. official re-elect xenuria video

reservedendorsements
what needs reformed that you couldn't do this year?
reform is a constant process, like growth.
a vote for steve is a no-brainer. he's the only guy on the ticket that
does what he does and a csm without steve ronuken will be
lacking a huge amount of experience and expertise.hard work, no
drama and a focus on areas that nobody else can bring. vote
steve!eve down under - a community for players in the autz
tbh, you are a no brainier for us high sec nerds who love industry
and spread sheets.+1
sterling work again this year steve, look forward to reading the
minutes.as the only representative that is (a) not in a large
alliance that rigs the voting blocks in their favor with the sole
intention of benefiting said alliance, and (b) the only chap who
solidly represents solo play styles and industry, you can count on
my vote again this year.i wish you all the best with csm xiio7
steve is a great man. he has been an amazing help to the current
csm as a knowledgeable and trustworthy incumbent. i hope to see
you on next term!
one cool dude. def gets my vote.
gets my vote
1. alpha clones, rebuilding of the csm, csm > player
communication and some stuff that is still under nda. a lot of the
livestream stuff was something i brought up. 2. yes because over
time you learn how to communicate more effectivly with ccp. you
know who to chat with etc.3. at the begininning it was deffaintly
trust with ccp. csm 10 was not great due to the drama so we had
to rebuild trust and i think we did that perfectly. another big issue
is sadly still under nda.4. focus groups work great when handled
by the csm to help gather information about specific topics5. no
was due to exams and some rl stuff. i still rewatched all the
meetings and gave feedback on the topics that were discussed.
also i agree that gambling should be banned, its just that at that
time a lot of good things also came from gambling (event support,
fansite support, ingame even supports) and at the time i just saw
that all go away. thats why i was displeased.
answerd your question.also application is in boys!
i was wondering if you would answer a couple of questions.1. in
january<U+FFFD>s fighting in catch, your alliance, tactical
supremacy, has had experience in both defending and attacking
space in the aegis sov system. what was your impression of the
current state of sovereignty warfare in null sec?2. for years now,
people have complained about ccp<U+FFFD>s in-game
corporate management user interface. your post stated that,
<U+FFFD>more work should be done to allow these in game
tools to supplement more complex custom applications.
<U+FFFD> so what types of improvements would you like to see
ccp make to the corporate management ui?3. when ccp
announced the introduction of recurring opportunities back in
april, you didn<U+FFFD>t like the feature. were you opposed to
bringing the concept of dailies to eve, or was the problem with the
content itself (kill one rat for 10,000 skill points)? is there an
implementation of recurring opportunities that you would
approve? if so, could you give a rough outline of what is
acceptable?4. you think that the official eve online forums are
horrible. how would you like ccp to make the situation better. is it
just a matter of better moderation, or does ccp need to update the
forum moderation policy?5. are there issues that mainly impact
the autz that you would like to see ccp address better?thank you
i was wondering if you could answer a few questions.1. you are
running on an alt character this year. why?2. besides an interest
in buying things from ccp in and outside the game, what are your
favorite things to do in eve?3. you ran for election onto csm 9
back in 2014 as your main, aram kachaturian. what have you
learned over the past three years that makes you a better
candidate this year?4. you propose that players should be able to
buy isk directly from ccp. in other games (gaia online as an
example), that has led to hyper-inflation. hyper-inflation in eve
would lead to activities like ratting and missioning becoming
totally worthless. why do you believe players being able to
purchase isk directly from ccp would be good for eve online?5. in
ccp<U+FFFD>s development process, creating art assets is often
cited as the main bottleneck in releasing content. you seem to
want ccp to divert even more artists from creating art assets for
space content to developing items for the cash shop. why do you
think the cash shop is so important?thank you

everywhere and all of them. its kind of an abstract answer but
there is no mystery in space anymore, everything has become
too methodical. there is a set way to do things now, min-maxed
fits, optimized routes, intel-rich killboards. the main enemy to a
dangerous new eden is the api. the api doesn't allow for
creativeness, only for mockery if you do not do things the 'right'
way. kill information should no longer be published and neither
should the 'jumps/kills in last hour' on the ingame map.i am also
willing to entertain the idea of a delayed local in nullsec.
you come and make me, atleast, if you can find the undock button
that is !!!
ohh no how will i ever kill your stratios, like can you even fly
anything else?
hello capsuleer,my name is donald alpha trump and i am running
for csm12! with the announcement that alphas are now eligible to
run for csm, the time is upon us to make new eden great once
again! here are a few promises i make to you all, if elected into
the csm12:1. <U+FFFD>build a wall<U+FFFD> <U+FFFD> and
make the goons pay for it2. ban minmatar from entering high-
sec3. <U+FFFD>bring manufacturing back to high-sec4. impose
tariffs on goods made in delve and querious.5. renegotiate or
withdraw from concord partnership6. <U+FFFD>full repeal of
cyno jammers<U+FFFD> and replace it with a active-use
alternative7. renegotiate the alpha skill limits8. leave rorquals as
is9. cut taxes on all trade stations10. <U+FFFD>bomb<U+FFFD>
and/or <U+FFFD>take the moon goo<U+FFFD> from goons
i was wondering, what do you say to skeptics of your candidacy
who do not believe you can win because of ccp's age
requirement? ccp requires your character to be created prior to
26 december 2016 and you were created yesterday (3 february
2017).
thank you rosewalker for your important question. my stance on
this topic is that this is age discrimination and i wont stand for it!
so don't worry, my lawyers are already hard at work on the case.
if that doesnt work, i'll grab em by the loading dock and show
them whos boss til they drop that nonsense!together, we can
'make new eden great again!'
how many black friends do you have?
hi mr trump,what's your stance on abortion?thanks!
you got my vote.
quite a few of them! most of them are serpentis skinned nyx
pilots.if you want to abort a titan or super, that should be your
choice. the government should not have any say in this matter.
you should have to right to choose for yourself!
my vote is casted for jintaan!
you did good works in the last csm jin, you can count on my vote
again this year.confidentiality still standing, i'm curious if the
conversation went something like this...aggressors: "we should
be able to because we want to, buying people is fun and makes
us happy! ccp need to give bullies more reward for their
efforts"defenders: "help, we don't understand why anyone would
want to be a bully"was their any resolution from the round tables?
open to questions and conserns. stay classy
hello!my name is lorelei and i am announcing my candidacy for
csm xii. i am running whilst focussed on high sec. i am a self-
confessed high sec carebear and am proud of it. i have analysed
the commitments planned/coming up in my life for the next year
and have decided that i can afford the time to run for csm xii!i
really haven't changed, neither has what i am thinking, (and
therefore neither has my opening campaign post, really) and i am
looking forward to discussing with you all!this is my campaign
thread from last year:
what is wrong with independence? this is a problem? is being in a
group the only way eve should be played? should they be forced
to be social? why would a carebear want to be part of a "we" in a
game full of overly aggressive unpleasant types that you can't
trust?why? what is the point? ccp aren't even interested in high
sec players, they seem to only want people to join a gang and be
f1 monkeys. someone playing for fun and to look at pretty space
themed eye candy is not high on their list.told you last year, that
moto is dangerously close to the moto of a known ingame ganker
corp. not a phrase synonymous with trust.i did however vote for
you last year, and will do so again this year.
thank you for stopping by my thread!nothing is wrong with
independence... but plenty is wrong with apathy. especially if my
fellow carebears sit around whining in local about this or that...
and then do not try using the avenues open to them to get their
voices heard.i'm sure that if there was a big enough carebear
lobby, some of the issues affecting high sec play would have
been tackled earlier... and before people start jumping around... i
am not advocating turning high sec into more of a theme
park.thank you!
chitsa had a lot of "interesting" ideas also. so did corbexx and
james arget. see how this all turned out for wh space..............
as i tell my corpmates though... i won't leave wormhole space...
when eve shuts down... and the hardware is sold off, i'll contact
ccp, buy a node that was used for running j-space, and keep it in
my man cave until i die. wormholer for life.i should be posting a
detailed paper, and updating my intro post in the next day or two
regarding my ideas, and thought experiments to push forward.
hi hello.if you dont know me. i am rhiload, maker of the zkill
guides over on youtube.let's be real, you are not here to read a
book on what i want from the csm and every piece of information
about me, so ill keep it short to save ourselves time my past i
joined the game in 2012, i got into pvp 1 month after playing the
game and i haven't looked back since, i joined a null pirate corp
for a short while then joined turn left (camel) (low-sec thera pvp)
and league of unaligned master pilots (null-sec sovereignty pvp)
where i now reside. if you really want the nitty gritty, please feel
free to message mewho i amfirst and foremost i am a video
content creator making videos for people to enjoy. (you most
likely know me from the zkill guides)i am a low-sec and null
pvper, but mostly reside in low-sec (i often use jc a lot to move
around)i very occasionally stream on twitch.i commentated eve_nt
at stream for the first weekendi am a commentator for eve_nt
tournamentmy campaigna voice for content creators however big
or small.from the smallest of twitch streamers, to as large as
channel zarvoxi also feel i represent small gang pvp in null and
low-sec and ship balance is very high on my priority list (i mean,
my zkill guides are practically strengths and weaknesses of a
certain ship, despite how memey they are)tldr low-sec small gang
pvper content creator video maker wingspan/mr hyde 2.0 avid
tournament fan and competitor if you wish to contact me, please
message me or my alt planet 6 :)alternatively you can contact me
over on twitter @rhiloadjrw, tweetfleet slack or youtube
reserved for endorsements, memes, and video of campaign
rosewalker, thank you for your questions. i hope i can answer
them all below. sorry for the slow response, i got a bit busy with rl
stuff past couple days.1. at least one member of the current csm
has stated that citadels make moving capital ships too risk-free.
as someone who not only runs her own jump freighter service but
is involved in alliance-level logistics, do you think any changes
need to be made to citadels where long-distance hauling is
concerned?i do agree that citadels have made it more risk free to
move capitals, especially with being able to tether to it regardless
if it's a ship class that can dock in it or not (ie: cyno a capital on a
medium citadel it can't dock in, but with 1 click you are tethered
safely anyways) - which i have done this myself. a thought that i
had was similar to stations and cyno's (when you cyno onto a
station, you have a timer that you have to wait before you can
dock up [if you don't think that timer matters: see video ]) -
perhaps adding that same timer to citadels and tethering?
probably not a popular idea there (and even myself , not going to
lie, i love tethering <3), but it's just a thought that i did have on this
instance.that aside, and on the next part of the question, i don't
really think much needs to be changed in reguards to long
distance hauling and i think the jump and fatigue timers do well in
preventing be able to go from point a to point b in no time.2. a lot
of people, including yourself, think that planetary interaction
needs to be revamped. if elected and ccp seagull were to ask you
what priority to give a planetary interaction upgrade, what would
you tell her? should it be a high, medium, or low priority?i would
say that it should be on high priority personally. it's one of those
things that literally has had no love. the closest thing that i can
think of as of writing this, is the poco's. it does desperately need a
revamp.3. ccp has made many changes, from new structures to
the recent rorqual upgrade, designed to make null sec more self-
sufficient industrially. do you think ccp has done enough, or are
there additional changes you would like to see?it's definitely
gotten better for sure. it's hard to say what else i would like to see
when we haven't really seen too much of the drilling platforms for
one or the other new structures that were talked about yet. on the
topic of drilling platforms, i'd also like to see how it would do things
like reactions where currently we have to use various types of
silo's depending on what we want. 4. in your thread, sullen
decimus was insulted because you didn<U+FFFD>t know about
the work that csm did concerning industry. honestly, i had not
heard anything about any work the csm did on industry (or much
of anything else) either. what do you think the csm should do to
publicize their activities better?ccp has said in a few instances
that csm has played an important role in the discussions related
to industry and the structures, we also have the 'role call' that are
posted of meetings - but i do agree that i would like to see more
activity publicized (ie: who/what/extent), but it's hard to say
because there are also nda limitations on what can even be
discussed outside.5. as someone who concentrates mainly in null
sec, do you think you have enough experience to be able to
discuss issues outside of null sec with the developers?i do
concentrate mainly in nul-sec, but i do feel like do have enough
experience, yes, to be able to also discuss issues outside of nul-
sec as well. while it has been a while, i have lived and done
industry in low-sec as well as high-sec.thank you once again!

thank you so much
thank you <3
update: my csm application has been officially sent in! :)
i'll vote for you to continue to represent our snooomepracy in the
csm
hello there, i'm fawlty7, ceo of tactically challenged the corp and
tactical supremacy the alliance. you may also know me as the
eternal birthday boy.a bit about me:i began playing eve in 2009 at
the age of 14. i am now 22 and haven't taken a single break yet. i
have played this game through the period of life where peoples'
personalities are developed and they are shaped into who they
grow up to be. i feel like this gives me an interesting perspective
of how much a game like eve can shape someones life,
especially younger players. i also hail from australia, that desolate
timezone that is autz where for the past 8 years where i have had
to create content out of a very quiet and much more barren eve.in
the time i have been playing i have lived in highsec, lowsec and
nullsec. i've done mining, ratting, exploration, pvp, fleet
commanding, fleet coordination, logistics work, pos work, sov
mechanics, capital warfare and many other aspects of the game.
my skills and expertise reside in fleet command and organisation
as well as general pvp and sov mechanics and the things that go
with them such as citadels, towers, entosising etc. i have also
organised and attended many real life player meet ups and
events, including venturing to iceland in 2014.my position:in the
time i have been a fleet commander the meta for the game has
changed more times than i can count and the nerf bat has been
used so brazenly that leaves players with their last 3 months of
training no longer viable. skill extractors help to alleviate this but it
is not a great solution to this issue. when one meta rises above
the rest, the creation of potential counter plays is a more ideal
outcome rather than the nerf bat approach.since starting and
running a corporation and alliance it is clear that the alliance
system especially needs an overhaul. as a leader i feel like there
is very limited options available that come with that power. there
are no real options or hard coded game mechanics that the
alliance executor can push onto member corporations, it is all
done outside the base mechanics. an expansion on options such
as voting to force tax rates alliance wide or direct taxing from the
alliance to corporations. these are several potential changes that
could shake up alliance mechanics.while the current state of
sovereignty mechanics does make it easier for small alliances to
potentially get a foot in the door, the current mechanics still make
it easy for a much larger entity to push a smaller one out. i believe
there needs to be more defensive bonuses for alliances holding
sovereignty, it makes sense that people should have to fight tooth
and nail to push long standing residents out of an area. citadels
are also an emerging mechanic that has presented potential
issues, especially for smaller alliances and their ability to counter
them being placed by hostiles within owned space and their
subsequent removal. obviously i understand this is a new set of
features but i believe it is important to develop them correctly as
soon as possible.those are the primary topics i feel strongly about
and believe i have the experience to contribute positively to the
csm with. i am more than happy to answer questions about
anything people are curious about my views on. lastly the csm is
a communication line, not a place for my personal wishes to be
granted, so while i feel strongly about these topics it's not about
forcing this at them, more about representing how these changes
can benefit the game overall and enhance players experiences.i
can be contacted in-game on fawlty7 or on the following
mediums:twitter:
reserved for stuff.
i've known fawlty for years and he's been one of the most
dedicated and prolific content creators in the autz. he's respected
by all sides in any conflict and although he's young he's already
got a better head on his shoulders than most people i know who
are much older. he's a seasoned eve player, too, having handled
more responsibility and gained more experience than the vast
majority of eve players ever will.i'm happy to endorse fawlty and
he'll probably be #1 on my ticket.p.s. happy birthday.
i've been holding back on my endorsements on csm candidates a
little bit just to see who is definately running. this being said,
without reservation, i also endorse fawlty7 as a candidate for the
csm. to be put bluntly, fawlty is known for calling a spade a spade
and will do wonders for both the community and the game.this
being said, fawlty, how do you feel about timezone tanking?
secondly, do you feel that your pre-listed responsibilities will
negatively impact your ability to do the csm job, or conversely do
you think that being a csm will have a negative impact on your
ceo duties/fleet commanding?thirdly, do you think that dt tanking,
or doing stuff with respect to dt, because you know its a get out of
jail free card, can and should be addressed?(edited for 3rd
question)
<3 for the endorsement man, means a lot.timezone tanking from
my perspective has 2 points, direct and indirect. for example, my
alliance is 99% autz, therefore we play outside the majority of the
games time. simply by playing in our timezone we are "timezone
tanking", in that case it isn't deliberate so much as its
unavoidable.on the flip side, there is always the option for groups
to time their structures or sov based on their enemies prime time.
this leads to interesting situations and opportunities. a lot of
groups love to time their stuff for, funny enough, autz because it's
so dead. it provides people playing in that timezone opportunities
to have something to do. overall i don't think there's anything
wrong with making your enemy come up with new ways to
counter your actions.my current responsibilities are what give me
the experience to run for csm in the first place. if elected i would
have to take a step back from some of them but the ones that i
am passionate about and what keep me wanting to login and run
for csm in the first place will still be very much a part of my game
time.compared to timezone tanking, dt tanking is a much more
deliberate use of a specific mechanic. especially for us in the autz
dt tanking has removed so many possibilities for content and
possible chances of changing the landscape of regional power
bases. so many groups use the safety net of dt to get away with
actions that within any other timezone would end terribly. i feel
that at the very least, dt tanking completely removes that
timezone's ability to have a major impact in certain situations. i
feel that a change of some form should be introduced that at least
reduces the removal of risk for anyone attempting to use dt as a
safety net. be that the addition of persistent aggression timers or
removal of dt entirely.
i have known fawlty7 since late 2010, he is an immensely
talented individual who has a very deep understanding of the
game, most notably in 0.0, and though our paths have diverged
over the years i have no hesitation in saying that he would make
an excellent member of the csm, he was certainly mature beyond
his years and has really experienced eve at a high level and is
passionate about it, i would have no hesitation in putting my votes
his way on matters pertaining to 0.0 and for looking at things
honestly.in terms of hisec i think he would at least listen which
makes him far better than most others i have seen. blocked:
teckos pech, sonya corvinus, baltec1, shae tadaruwa, wander
prian, daichi yamato, jonah gravenstein, merin ryskin, linus gorp
hi space friends,i am jonatan reed, or jr, of origin. currently, i
console elo over skype when he loses a dota match, try to
convince him to come back to the game, run his corp in our
alliance did he say jump (dhsj), and i am here to announce that i
am running for csm as a representative for all low sec
residents.about mei have played eve since 2009, spending the
first 2 years of my eve career in mostly harmless before the
collapse of the old nc, and spent another year in the drone
regions in the old irc coalition before joining origin. and black
legion in mid-2012.since that point, i spent most of my time in
origin and took a couple breaks to play around in wormholes and
took a 8 month break in 2015 for irl reasons before rejoining
origin. when white legion was formed. i subsequently started
managing origin after elo knight took another break and have
been managing the corp and being part of dhsj leadership and
one of its main fcs.my ideal gameplay ranges from mid-large size
fleet pvp down to solo.csm platformi think that a lot of focus of eve
is on nullsec and ccp devotes a lot of resources to improving
nullsec at the expense of other areas of space and one of the
most neglected areas is lowsec. i think that the csm desperately
needs someone who represents the entire lowsec playerbase,
including faction warfare (fw).lowsec visioni definitely want to
bring a perspective to eve where fights between entities aren't
based on sov and massive fleets, but are based almost
exclusively on structures and small/mid sized entities.citadels,
and more importantly structures like poses and pocos are the crux
of fights in almost all of lowsec.citadels and structures re-
examination of citadel vulnerability timers - ccp plans to replace
poses with citadels and the to be announced "drilling platforms,
<U+FFFD> but this will create a landscape of largely
uncontestable structures that have mechanics that overwhelming
favor the defender. <U+FFFD>drilling platforms<U+FFFD> - the
proper introduction of <U+FFFD>drilling platforms<U+FFFD> will
be critical to avoid the evaporation of a major content generator in
lowsec. poses provide content by allowing individuals,
corporations, and alliances to contest isk-producing assets in
space. if <U+FFFD>drilling platforms<U+FFFD> are governed by
the same mechanics as citadels and engineering complexes (i.e.
vulnerability and reinforcement timers), we risk losing what is
arguably the largest generator of content in lowsec. after all,
asakai was fought over a cobalt moon. faction warfare even
though i am not personally enlisted in fw currently, as someone
who enjoys lowsec pvp in a faction warfare zone and has done it
on a few alts, i think the following changes are necessary to fw to
benefit both fw and non-fw players. suspect timer on entering fw
complex: - i think suspect timers should be given to non-militia
players who enter a fw complex. by doing so, militia players--new
and old alike--will not receive a security status penalty for
contesting the complex on behalf of their militia against neutral
entities. this is especially beneficial to new players, as many rely
on high security space to re-arm and re-ship after entering their
respective warzones. resetting fw complex timers - i think that fw
timers should be reset back if someone leaves the complex. it
forces people to stay in sites or risk losing their progress, which
benefits all pvp<U+FFFD>ers. increase lp from killing opposing
militia targets - i think that more loyalty points should be awarded
to players who engage in pvp with opposing militias by increasing
the payout for loyalty point bounties. this promotes content by
rewarding pvp over pve. citadels in faction warfare - i think that
citadels should have fw system control lockouts applied to them
as they apply to stations. a hostile militia should not be able to
anchor and online a citadel in a system they do not control, and
should not be able to dock in any citadel that is anchored in a
system that is not controlled by them even if they are on the
access list or if it's freeported. capitals examining dreadnaught
role in current capital meta - i think dreadnaughts need a close
examination to find them a new place in eve as carriers and faxes
have cemented themselves as the primary capitals for almost all
alliances in eve. faxes are enormously cost-effective against
dreads, in that a normal t2 fit fax can basically tank 3 to 4 times its
value in dreads. carriers exacerbate the fax imbalance with their
utility between capital neuts and support fighters and their ability
to receive reps and capacitor from said triage. examining the
dreadnaught role in structure bashing - with the introduction of
citadel/structure damage caps and the impending removal of
poses, dreadnoughts will lose their niche in eve as siege
platforms. a sieged dread is easily killed by a properly fit citadel.
you cannot one-cycle reinforce a citadel like you could for even
the largest upgunned pos. rorquals should not be jump hics - i
think that rorquals need to receive a penalty of not being able to
use warp disabling modules when they hit their panic module.
overall tl;drspecific attention to overall citadel mechanics and
reinforcement mechanics, how drilling platforms will be
implemented, and quality of life changes in fw which helps the
health of lowsec in general, and a look at how dreadnaughts
factor into capital gameplay, and also jumphicshmu on tweetfleet
slack as jonatan reed, or twitter as @tehroot or if you would like to
reach out to me.
reserved
endorsing jr for csm. i happen to know that jr, despite residing in
what some would refer to as larger entities in eve, actual does a
lot of solo and small gang pvp. both of which have been lacking
attention in the larger scopes of eve and i think jr will represent us
well. fw is definitely something that has been lacking an overhaul
for years. i remember back when my eve career started, that it
was fw that started my pvp adventures, but it was also fw which
made me look for greener fields and the mechanics quickly
became dreadful and unintuitive. which the recent development
focus on alpha clones, npe and other venues leaning towards
attracting capsuleers to the game, it only becomes natural that fw,
as often opted as the new player go-to place for first pvp
encounters, should soon get it turns as the center of attention.
full support for jonatan reed for csmhe is a keystone to our
operations, even if they are behind the scenes and go un-noticed
by the whole of the alliance, the knowledge he has and the skill
he has developed while playing eve, makes him a great
contestant for the csm would enjoy seeing what he could bring to
the table for the lo-sec groups.making low sec great
againmakeevegreatagain
vote for jr if you want to nerf jump dessies. i don't want to but
that's on his agenda.
mega
great guy who knows fuckton about this game, furthermore
probably the only candidate whos able to scare the **** out of
even ccp if he enters his famous full rage mode :d

hi! :)a question for you: how would you react if, when talking with
ccp, they tell you they don't have the developer resource
available to do any work on pi, at the moment? (i'm not saying this
is the case, but it's the kind of thing which happens.)
so......total pi overhaul, t3 bs's, mining that is "currently in a good
place" and something yet to be specified regarding industry in all
security levels of space...well...ccp knows pi could be tidied up.
they will get to it one day.t3 bs's are already on the cards. they
will get to it one day.industry is happening, right now. without
question there are areas that could be improved upon, but ccp will
get to it one day.what, by voting for you, will expedite this
amelioration?
what are your thoughts on instalocking and the travel ceptor meta
that has evolved from it? along the same lines, what are your
thoughts on interdiction nullification(t3s)? what changes would
you recommend(if any)? +1 -- from what i<U+FFFD>ve seen and
heard about dancul in the at alone, he<U+FFFD>s someone you
want influencing the direction of the game.
bobmon got along well with everyone on the csm. the key thing
about csm11 was the rebooting of the relationship not only within
the csm itself but also with ccp. when you are picking a candidate
keep this in mind as anyone you vote for should be someone that
can get along with a group of their peers.bobmon can do that for
you.
bob has my vote for csm 12.he's always open and receptive to
ideas that are put forward then provides clear feedback to what
he presented to ccp and how it was received.
vote ze bobmon! he'll waste tons of his time on this garbage.
cheers for the questions, 1) the aegis sov system worked
fantastically well for us, as an alliance our pve activities were
spread mostly evenly across the constellation, keeping a 4+ adm
in every single one of our systems. being on the other side of this
in the past, in a war that was steamrolled, and seeing that we
instead held against stainwagon for so long, aegis sov fulfilled its
intention. from that, it forced tikle, the much smaller alliance to
halt expansion and live in sov relevant to its size and carefully
harass neighbouring sov and towers that were hittable due to low
adm's and lax tower work.on this note though, the smooth
operation of aegis sov vs citadels leave much to be desired. both
our fortizar drop, and the continued astrahus drops by goons and
stainwagon were utterly incontestable. with zero effort the
structure was invulnerable to be a safe haven for the enemy for
ever. these structures require no maintenance and =have a timer
outside of our timezone there is simply nothing we could do.2) the
in-game corporation tools do their job currently, this is great. in
reality these tools and their revamps become useful when your
corporations grows but it doesn't take long before alts begin
crowding your list and "last month" means yesterday twelve times
a year...i don't thinks its ccp's place to attempt to add jackknife or
similar to eve, but i hope to raise discussions around these qol
things and increased management (roles, titles etc) via the esi
api3 ) daily opportunities in their proposed system, did not sit well
with how i believe my timezone, alliance, corp and myself plays
the game. we log in everyday to fly beside our friends and
corpmates, to shoot the **** in mumble and link horrible memes in
jabber. there may be places in this system for opportunities, but i
don't see them being above abuse if sp is still the reward.what i
would be interested in tabling discussions on, is dailies for
collectables, exclusive skins and the like. with opportunities
actually bringing a character out of its shell. are you a highsec
miner? mine ore in lowsec! are you an avid pvp'er? run a data
site! things that are both balanced in terms of being attainable, but
require you to interact with a part of the game you may not
have.4) the forums are a cesspit. heavy handed moderation is
some threads, with 40 pages of vitriol in another simply being
locked. the existing moderation team is either heavily
understaffed, or afraid to act decisively with a few rogue agents.
what the answer is to this, i can't say without being more involved
with the moderation team. however, working with the forum
moderation policy which has 36 individual rules is simply a well of
text to read. sure ccp have expanded this over time to fit unique
circumstances, but it is unwieldy and leaves much of the
reprimand system to arbitrary permabans or leniency and this is
before we involve the website terms of use...furthermore, both
this post and the op is in breach of the forum moderation policy,
since discussion of moderation is against rule 11. although cooler
heads should prevail here in the hopes of a better forum for all.5)
kill dton a serious note, i completely understand ccp's stance on
autz. we simply aren't large enough to justify significant
expense.what we are however, is a nation built on honesty and
integrity, many of ccp's responses to issues are fantastic at
aggravating this. a timezone with low server load and high latency
experiences a bug, the common response is that this issue is
unable to be replicated, only for the issue to get steadily worse
and magically appear in a major timezone. cue slow clap from the
autz as the euros and americans find a new bug!i also spoke
earlier about the ability for autz to work around the edges of aegis
sov, this is not possible with citadels and makes me quite
concerned about autz's ability to continue participating.thanks for
your time!-- ariel
1. i am a free man in a free state. 2. you seem quite arrogant here
and that's not very cool. read the first line of my first post.3. i
learned that ccp could make terrible choices, much worse than i
could have imagined4. you are implying there isn't already hyper-
inflation and that ratting and missiniong aren't worthless. can't
answer that.5. nothing exciting left, at least let us play barbie
online properly.
can we close this thread already, its obviously fake.
so you seem to be anti goons, not a bad thing. but are you
likening them more towards isis, mexicans or the chinese?
if this wasn't actually happening in the real, it would be quite
funny...so... will you be pushing ccp to add a extra tax for female
players, along with a reduction in their basic rights?
i agree. why bar us from some of the tech i drones when we are
able to get other tech i stuff? giving us the other tech i drones
(especially the heavy drones to make ratting more efficient) won't
break the line between an alpha and omega.
to me that doesn't make any ******* sense i've giant mining ships
in an asteroid belt they cannot give boosts to anyonebecause
they need a refit their ship before combat on the fly in
spacecurrently at the moment if you do not attack somebody you
can refit while you're in combat with the mobile depots if you do
not have any aggression timeri kind of hate both of these things i
hope my alliance doesn't hate my guts for bitching about the
mobile depotsreason why i'm posting this here maybe you guys
will find a better solution for both of these things without screwing
everybody over that much it rely on those strategies
as a csm 11 member who had the pleasure of meeting and
working with jin this year, i highly recommend and support his
candidacy for csm 12 and urge all prospective voters to back him
this year. jin's work as the unofficial secretary/spokesperson on
csm 11 was invaluable in keeping the community abreast of what
was going on in our discussions with ccp, all while maintaining the
level of discretion necessary in an nda'd position. while many csm
members like myself preferred a more narrow, expert-oriented
method of gathering feedback, jin succeeded in the opposite and
brought valuable information to ccp from a wide variety of players
through forums like townhalls. jin is an extremely dedicated and
passionate player and csm member, and despite his notorious
inability to hold his liquor, is one of those guys that everyone
appreciated having at our meetings and summits. i wish him the
best of luck in his campaign this year and hope you all will
consider backing him for another year representing the
playerbase on csm 12.
definitly a +1 from me. you did awesome work
i honestly don't think jin has slept in the last year due to the
amount of work he's doing for this csm.easy +1 choice for me.
as some one who arguably saved jin and tonics life once i will
100% vote for him.
jin is a bloody hard worker. he is one of the people i was most
surprised by on csm 11, and not just because he can drink a
surprising amount for guy with a small frame! he will be on my
ballot without a doubt. #csm11forever
what are your thoughts on rorquals?
i think the e war options in panic need to be nerfed. 5 minute
invulnerable jump hictor is a little rediculous
well i started to go through your blog but i was onto page 3 of
older posts and...i think that ccp should have a hisec carebear
focus group which focus on making it fun for people who just want
to play casual which would be a counter weight to the get them
out of hisec 0.0 crowd hammering away at ccp. what do you
think?personally i think ganking is in a good place at this point,
except for a couple of things, the first is bumping, this makes it
too easy and very annoying for the freighter pilot needs to be
sorted. there are a number of ways this can be dealt with, but
having a no consequence way of pointing someone for hours if
they wanted is very poor game play. my preferred option is to put
a bump counter on that after 20 bumps there is a an increasingly
random chance that the bumper will go suspect when bumping a
freighter.another change would be removing docking rights fro -5
or worse, there are now citadels in hisec, that will hopefully
change how people look at ganging together and going after
ganker citadels or those that give them docking rights. the
astrahus and raitaru have to have better cap and improved
defences, the missile system in hisec is too weak and needs
improving, perhaps an alternative is some very effective rr ability
on those citadels which will make people more likely to defend
them.war decs, the system is in my opinion actually quite good,
but need a few tweaks, the first is cap the war dec fee against
major alliances, the second is give the locator agent the ability to
say if someone is online as a request, but add in that if the agents
corp has good standings with the player being asked about they
will warn him of the interest, this also replies to the location
request. i would make the war dec follow a character if he joins
another player run corp within the week of the war dec, but on the
other hand i would also limit the time that entities with less than
50 charactes can be war decked, perhaps two weeks max.hisec
is made up mainly of people with support and indy accounts in
hisec which is why it is so stale, but another reason is that people
who are actually more hisec focused and casual, play so as not to
be noticed by war deckers who they have no chance of fighting
effectively. that is a statement of the issue in hisec, but changing
it is not easy because as you quite rightly pointed out it is i rather
than we that is the issue here. i was hoping that people would
gang together to keep citadels alive but they are so weak and the
issue of not being able to rep allies in the war dec screws that
one, ccp needs to change it so that rr can be applied to allies in a
war. i know that this will benefit war deckers too, but only when
they come in as defending allies....anyway a few things for you to
respond to, or develop further. blocked: teckos pech, sonya
corvinus, baltec1, shae tadaruwa, wander prian, daichi yamato,
jonah gravenstein, merin ryskin, linus gorp
my name is the judge and i am proud (and excited) to announce
my candidacy for csm 12. who am i?i am the judge, judge or tj. i
am one of the 4 permanent attendees from csm 11, and the only
person to ever hold true perfect attendance in a csm term. that
isn't easy coming from melbourne, australia and playing in the
autz!while i have rolled many characters and been known by
many names since late 2003, i have been playing eve full time
since 2008. i strongly believe what makes eve unique in a ever
changing universe is the community that shapes and guides the
universe we all take part in every time we open up the launcher
and log in. eve is a massive game fueled by the experiences of its
players. it is you, the player, that i would like to represent for
another year on csm 12.i am currently a member of the
leadership team for the alliance circle-of-two. i am also a proud
member of the circle-of-two alliance tournament team. i have lived
for large amounts of time null, high and low security space. i like to
think i have my ear to the ground on the issues facing pilots from
all over new eden. i come to you not only as a candidate for
nullsec, but as a person who wants nothing more than to see eve
continue to succeed, evolve and grow.why should you vote for
me?my platform is quite simple. i want to continue to be the
person you can voice your concerns and issues to. i want to make
sure that every every concern that the eve community has makes
it to ccp and the rest of the csm. csm 11 has shown that with
mutual respect between the csm and ccp we can work together to
bring eve to a better place.csm 11 has been arguably the most
successful csm for both ccp and the csm as an institution. we, as
a group, have pushed through the negativity and distrust from the
start of our term to bring the ccp-csm working relationship into a
better place than its ever been. this is in no small part due to the
personalities of csm 11. this is why i support the reelection of my
fellow csm 11 members who have decided to rerun.with the
change bringing the total number of csm members down to 10 it's
more important than ever to vote for the candidates you would
like to see continue moving the csm forward. lowering the total
members means bloc votes can only bring a candidate so far. be
an informed voter. people who promise you the moon are more
often than not pandering to the masses. the csm is a
representative body for the playerbase, not something that can
force the hand of ccp or bully developers. if you want to help eve
continue in an upward trend, please consider voting for either csm
11 members or candidates who understand the function of the
csm. i will continue to be a staunch advocate for the playerbase
and the csm. this is why you should vote for me and the rest of
csm 11.closing remarkshow can you contact me?twitter:
@_thejudgeingame: mail or convo the judgeskype:
thejudgeevereddit: _thejudgein closing, i urge you to vote when
the time comes, but be an informed voter. there are lots of
candidates that promise you fixes or changes to your style of
gameplay, and in all honesty, that's not something the csm has
control over. we are a sounding board, a focus group,
consultants... not elected junior developers. the csm needs
mature people who can talk and act professionally in a business
environment. i hope you find me worthy of your vote to again
represent our amazing and unique community. thank you.

reserved.
you've definitely got my vote again judge.
one of the most down to earth people i know.the judge has made
good on all the promises he made during the last election. he said
regardless of the cost, he would do his best to get our voice
heard.he has made many sacrifices in game, and in real life to
ensure that he has represented us, the players, to the best of his
ability.a truly hard working individual. as eve online players, we
could not have a better person representing us, and working to
make this game we love continue to develop and improve in
conjunction with ccp.the judge will have my vote.
the judge is one of the most knowledgeable and skilled players in
eve. his input will be based on what's best for the game, not his
personal or alliance interest.i will vote for you
in game politics should not dictate or direct the decisions as to
who is elected. judge wants what is best for the game as do i and
that is what is most important. csm xi was the first in a new
decade and generation of electees who brought the relationship
of csm closer than it has ever been with ccp. anyone who
continues that is worth my vote. i support the judge.
updated post with campaign goals, and things i want to bring to
the table.
hello all, most probably don't know me unless you're on tweetfleet
slack or have joined karina ivonovich's recent weebfleet slack. i'm
here to throw my hat in to the csm candidacy pot. even though i'm
not a big name, i know i can and will work hard to make sure my
constituents are heard when it come to anything that may affect
them. anyways, on to my post.who am i?i've been playing eve
solidly since may of 2013. started as a highsec miner and one
month in to the game i got my first taste of pvp venturing in to low
to get some of those rocks. never looked back. joined e-uni that
august, stayed there for two years, then in august of 2015 i joined
waffles. while in e-uni i did try out wormhole space for about 6
months, i stayed mostly entirely in lowsec. during it i've fc'd mostly
small gang, my largest fleet hitting 50 people wherein we used
carriers and dreads. i run a monthly "weebfleet" public fleet which
is slowly gaining traction. my campaigni'm going in as a lowsec
candidate. primarily to help represent faction warfare space. now
while i've never done it myself. i am in good communication with a
few people who have, one who has done it for a long time. they'll
make sure i get all relevant feedback to pass on to ccp. you may
be asking "why care about facwar if you're not part of it?" well, the
short of it is that even though i don't do it. it still has a large effect
on my own gameplay. if it wasn't for the faction warfare in my
area, it would be much harder to hunt targets. a healthy facwar is
a healthy lowsec. tl;dr lowsec pilot small and medium gang fc
cares about all aspects of lowsec due to their symbiotic
relationships. #makelowsecgreatagain if you need to get ahold of
me, feel free to evemail me, hit me up on tweetfleet slack, on
weebfleet discord, on reddit at /u/kalen_tsero, or even twitter
@kalen_tsero (though i rarely get on my twitter.)
* reserved for replies *
weebfleet proudly endorses this candidate.
kalen is good people.
do you like waffles?
yes, in fact i do like waffles. do you?fun fact: waffles are just
pancakes with abs.
will you ever remove anime from eve online?
with the departure of both myself and gorski at the end of csm 11,
the critical role of a balance and small gang/solo council member
will go vacant and will require a successor. it is for this reason
that i support and endorse suitonia's candidacy for csm 12, and
encourage any and all who supported gorski or myself to back
suitonia in this election. although i proposed and supported the
reduction of the total number of csm members from 14 to 10, i
completely understand that it makes it harder for 'non-bloc'
focused candidates to get the necessary votes to secure a seat.
this is why it is critical that if mechanics, balance, and small
gang/solo pvp are important issues to you, that you place suitonia
at the top of your ballot this year to ensure these issues have an
experienced voice representing them at the table.despite
suitonia's reputation as a pilot of the detestable frigate class
space vessels, i can assure you that in all seriousness that he is
one of only a handful of people in the game with the necessary
experience, depth of understanding, and ability to articulate
feedback to fill this important balance-focused role. this is
demonstrated by his: (1) years of pvp experience in the game;
(2)numerous articles and writeups analysing balance problems,
and (3) dozens of videos showcasing his understanding of fitting,
piloting, and mechanics. his existing relationship with ccp devs
will only be strengthened by securing a seat on the csm, and i
trust him to objectively address the topics i care about most and
continue the work done by csm 11 in this regard. i encourage all
solo/balance focused voters to back suitonia in this election. good
luck on your campaign and may the holy battleships flourish in
your care.
wow... you're not pathetic at all. you must be the cool, edgy rebel
of the internet. i totally wish i had daddy issues like you so i can
project my insecurity onto others.. sucks because i can't be as
much of a bitter douche bag as you. i'm new and was just
browsing around and came across this. i have no idea what eve
needs or anything remotely of the likes of that. however, it doesn't
take an expert in any game to notice that you clearly have issues
to get so upset over a single person (that, from this perspective,
has merely listed credentials to establish their experience within
eve) and shows you are capable of nothing other than
condescending down to others. maybe, if you are capable, you
can type something a little more 'constructive' and less "i'm
triggered over something so trivial, i have to be a hateful whiny
little b*tch about it".i for one hope you don't run for whatever the
hell this election is for. no one will probably need a bs internet
edgelord expert.
say what? :d#teambattleship
as an outgoing member of csm 11 who, along with gorski,
primarily focused on mechanics, balance, and small gang/solo
issues, i must voice my strong opposition to the candidacy of
rhiload, and urge those voters who care about these issues to
instead back suitonia, who is vastly more experienced and
qualified, to fulfil this role on csm 12. with the reduction in the
number of csm seats this year from 14 to 10, it is important that
'non-bloc' entities like the small gang/solo community further
concentrate their top votes behind serious candidates that can
bring a depth of understanding and experience to ccp on these
topics, rather than wasting them on charlatans such as rhiload.the
success and popularity of rhiload's meme video series 'zkill
guides' this year is undoubtedly impressive and has at long last
brought a particular style of comedy video popular in other games
to eve. however, this success should not be misinterpreted as an
indicator of his knowledge or experience on the topics of balance
and small gang/solo pvp, but rather just as a showing of his ability
to entertain and satirise. unfortunately for him, neither of these
skills are valuable or necessary in the role of a csm member and
would actually would detract from the hard work csm 11 did to
restore productive and serious relations with ccp by trivialising
important discussions on balance topics. despite his comparisons
to me in regards to garnering a csm candidacy backing from
videomaking success, i respectfully disagree with this false
equivalency. i would instead draw comparisons between rhiload
and csm 10 member wingspanntt (chance ravinne) who
demonstrated how youtube popularity without any substance to
back it up, makes for a hollow and useless csm member. although
i certainly encourage his continued content creation which brings
a smile to many-an-eve player, i want to warn prospective voters
on the dangers of letting rhiload's comedic success propel him
above his station.having spent many hours and days over the
past year working with ccp to have game balance taken as an
issue seriously, i cannot in good conscious allow an eve youtube
comedian to get away with exploiting his recent popularity to
masquerade as an expert on a topic he is not qualified to speak
on. *i understand that rhiload may take this as a personal insult,
however, i only voice this opposition because i care about this
game and these topics, and have too much respect for the csm-
ccp relationship to allow a meme candidate to detract from the
serious work of the council. i do not know him personally and am
sure he's a nice person and dedicated player.
so vote for a goon as a non-block entity? did you fall on your
head?
i've flown with rhiload in last years at and although he might not
be a master of game mechanics he still is a reasonable guy and
knows his stuff (see his commentary work in at). not everyone in
eve is concerned with the intricacies of the game and the main
problem with the csm seems that it is dominated by huge power
blocks and often the smaller groups get lost in the crowd. i feel
rhiload being in a small gang focused group like tl he maybe in a
better position to understand and listen to the feelings of smaller
groups in eve right now.
thank you mr. grappler. the game is still very unbalanced. it's time
for someone who cares about small ships, too. and i mean all
small ships and not only the kestrel. o7
hi hyde, congrats on the nearly 10k subs.i see that you feel that i
am not up to the task and or feel disheartened about me running
for the csm. but that's a valid concern , so let's get into shall we.i
am no expert in game mechanics and balance issues in this
game, i dont even say that in my forum post so where did you get
that? i feel if both suitonia and myself was part of the csm, both of
us can bounce feedback from the devs on how/why this xyz is
op/not op. there is no doubt that suitonia is a much stronger
candidate than myself in terms of game balance and mechanics,
but i am not fully running for that position. (i even commentated
the first weekend of the at, i dont know anything about balance or
ships)i am running for a platform of low-security, i reside here and
so its my best interest to keep this area healthy, i am not just
running on balance and game design alone. you may take me for
a joke, because of the videos i make, and that is a perfectly fine
statement to make, in fact i want people to question this, how will
people know i am taking the csm seriously? the videos i make
point out the strengths, weaknesses, piloting tactics and fitting all
in one, yes, they have an incredible amount of memes in them,
but it takes knowledge of the game and ship design to actually
make the video in the first place. ive helped people get into pvp,
new and old, i give them fittings, tactics and other helpful
suggestions for them, i commentate eve_nt, i've commentated the
first weekend for at 14, if this is not getting involved or not taking
what i do seriously, then i dont know. im here to give the little guy
a voice to, small gang groups such as tl and various thera groups
need someone to step up, gorski is currently not running and i
would be worried for said groups to not have a representative in
the csm, if there are, then more the merrier.you have every right
to remain disgruntled and have opinion about me, in fact it's good
to have opposition to a candidate, but i guarantee you, if i do get
voted on the csm, i will prove you wrong.

a solid platform to stand on! yums for space president!
my only question is: will you make poitot great again? when you
are part of the csm that is.it feels like poitot's importance in the
grand scheme has dwindled a little bit, especially to ccp it
seems.what are your first steps in making a great and unified
poitot again?
so this meme is a bit tired, but i will try to pick it up and work with
it, eh? if by poitot you mean everything good about npc null, yes i
will do everything in my power to try and focus some attention on
this space, space mostly forgotten by the devs. npc null is where
ccp needs to be looking anyway for the current crowd, much more
than sov 0.0. despite their best attempts, sov is still dominated by
large, tired coalitions, and the few sparks of promising vigor have
been promptly stomped out by ravenous power blocs, hungry for
content. npc null is literally the dream of the current gamer crowd.
what sort of games are jumping and jiving right now? well dota,
overwatch, etc etc - games where you can take a small group of
friends out for a spin and see what you are, or are not made of.
that's the npc null dream - take out a small gang of your buddies
and roam around, see what you can stir up, have fun, and then
dock up and be done with it. back in the old days, when pirate
battleship bpc were worth something, npc null was even more fun
as the pve followed this model as well - the few deds out there
created flash points for gangs to fight over, thus resources were
acquired by activity, and spurred content. now npc null is pretty
much dead - it can't really support a diversity of small entities
sharing the same space, rather it gets bulldozed over by one
large entity that controls the moons. it needs bottom up,
accessible income to let people live the dream. lowsec has fw and
l5s, 0.0 has sov-stuff, but npc null has...well nothing. yet it
remains one of the last few small gang sanctuaries. if the
playstyle was supported, things would be great.in building the
new npc null dream, a few things have to be done. first, an
income stream that is bottom up, and cannot be dominated by
large groups and afk mechanics like moons, has to be created. it
currently makes no sense that belt ratting via tags, and l5
missions, make lowsec many times more profitable than npc null.
this would allow a re-colonization of the space, and small groups
would be supported, and they would thus not spend the majority
of their time looking for content, rather they could find it by
logging in. most of the pvpers i know aren't moaning about jump
fatigue, they are moaning about roaming fatigue - so much of
space is empty, logging into eve is a chore not an adventure. if
sov 0.0 is the arena for coalitions to fight on a coalition scale,
then make npc null the space for small gangs to play out their
dramas and struggles.i've lived in syndicate for a long time.
entities like cas repeatedly voice to me that it's hard for their
players to source income in hisec or on alts, and then look for play
in syndicate. there's no reason why they should have to do that.
when aegis sov doubled the escalation rate, it gutted a lot of
income from npc null. if it were up to me, i would make the loot
tables separate - escalation deds drop different things than
scanned down, naturally occurring ones. right now it's just plain
silly how cheap pirate bs hulls are, and the saturation of loot
makes things just blah. re-introduce scarcity and rewarding
specialization by separating the loot tables, and npc null gets a
tiny buff. again, a lot of players do not want the coalitions of sov-
space, they want a small gang sanctuary. i would love it if ccp
supported all the play-styles out there. poitot is great again when
npc null shines.

+1agreed on all accounts vote fawlty
fawlty would make an excellent csm member, and it would be
great to get some autz representation, so +1.what are your
thoughts on how the server comes back up after downtime? it it
better for it to be online quickly with some elements still offline
(systems, markets, contracts) or slowly with everything working
as it should?
i like fawlty7 he is a p.good dude.
downtime has come leaps and bounds in the past few years. in
its current form it is bearable but definitely needs work. the fact
that downtime usually ends fairly quickly but with several services
lacking, considering the progress that has been made over the
recent years, is a small price to pay. however the overall goal
should be the complete removal of downtime.
having known of, then met fawlty many times, i am confident in his
ability to confront issues head on, and be frank, open and honest
when it comes to addressing any and all issues.for some of you
who may have known fawlty years ago and have had no
interaction with him since - his experience (both within eve and
without) have given him a unique and wise perspective.that is to
say, he has grown immensely in leaps and bounds into the level
headed man he is today.fawlty would make an excellent addition
and valued contributions to the csm, and you, as a voter, would
miss out if fawlty were not a part of the csm.
<U+043C><U+043B><U+043E> <U+043A><U+043E><U+043D>
<U+043A><U+043A>.<U+044F> <U+043D> <U+043F>
<U+043E><U+043D><U+043C><U+044E> <U+043E>
<U+043A><U+043A><U+043E><U+043C> <U+043C><U+043D>
<U+043D><U+043E> <U+043D> <U+044C> (<U+043F>
<U+043F><U+043C><U+044B> <U+043D> <U+043A>
<U+043E><U+043D><U+043A><U+043D><U+044B> <U+043D>
<U+044F>). <U+043F><U+043E><U+043A> <U+043E>
<U+044B> <U+043E><U+044C> <U+044F><U+043D>
<U+043D><U+044B><U+043C> <U+043C><U+043B>
<U+044C><U+043D><U+043C>. <U+044B> <U+043F>
<U+044B><U+043A>. <U+043B><U+044C><U+044F>
<U+043D><U+043E><U+043E> <U+043E><U+043B><U+043E>
<U+043E><U+043D> <U+044D><U+043E> <U+043B>
<U+044C><U+043D><U+043E> <U+043E><U+043D>
<U+043E>, <U+043B> <U+043C><U+043D><U+043A>,
<U+043F><U+043E><U+043E><U+043B> <U+043E><U+043A>
<U+043C><U+043D><U+043B><U+044C><U+043D><U+043E>
<U+043F><U+043D><U+043C><U+044C> <U+043D>
<U+044F>, <U+043B> <U+043E><U+043B><U+043F>
<U+043B> .. <U+043D><U+043E> <U+043D> <U+043E>
<U+043E><U+043D><U+044C> <U+044F> <U+043E>
<U+043B><U+044C><U+043A><U+043E> <U+043E><U+043D>
<U+043E> <U+043E> <U+043D><U+043B><U+043E>.
<U+044D><U+043E> <U+043D> <U+043D><U+043D>
<U+043D><U+044B> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043E> <U+043F>
<U+043B><U+043D><U+044F>. <U+043C> <U+043E>
<U+043B> <U+043E><U+043D> <U+043E><U+043D>
<U+043E> <U+043D> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043E>
<U+043D> <U+044F><U+043D><U+044C> <U+043B>
<U+044C><U+044F><U+043D><U+043E><U+044E> <U+043C>
<U+043D><U+043A>. <U+043F><U+043B><U+043D>
<U+043A> <U+043E> <U+043A><U+043E><U+043F>
<U+043E> <U+043B><U+044C><U+044F><U+043D>
<U+043A><U+043D><U+043E> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043B>
<U+044C><U+044F> <U+043E><U+043F><U+043E><U+043B>
<U+043D><U+043B><U+044C><U+043D><U+044B>
<U+043C><U+043D><U+043A>. <U+043E><U+043B>
<U+043E><U+043E><U+043D> <U+043E><U+043B><U+044F>
<U+044F> <U+043E><U+043D><U+043C> <U+043B>
<U+043B><U+044C><U+044F><U+043D> <U+043E><U+043A>
<U+043E><U+043F><U+043E> <U+043E><U+043B><U+043E>
<U+043E><U+043C> <U+043B> <U+043F><U+043E>.
<U+044B> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043D><U+043C>,
<U+043E> <U+043B> <U+043C><U+043D><U+043A>
<U+043A><U+043B><U+043C> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043C>
<U+043D><U+044F><U+044C> <U+044C> "<U+043E>
<U+043B><U+044C> <U+043D><U+044B> <U+043E>
<U+043D><U+043E>" <U+043C><U+043B><U+044B>
<U+043C> <U+043B><U+044C><U+044F><U+043D>
<U+043C>, <U+043B><U+044E> <U+043C><U+043C>,
<U+043E> <U+043C> <U+043B><U+044F><U+044C>
<U+043D> <U+043A><U+043F><U+043D><U+044B>
<U+043B><U+044C><U+044F><U+043D><U+044B> <U+043D>
<U+043E> <U+043D><U+043E><U+043C><U+043E><U+043D>
<U+043E>? <U+043E><U+043E><U+043D><U+043D>
<U+043E> <U+043B> <U+044C> <U+043E><U+043B>
<U+044C> <U+043A><U+043E><U+043D><U+043A><U+043A>
<U+043F><U+043B><U+043E><U+044C> <U+043C><U+043D>
<U+043C>, <U+043A><U+043E><U+043E><U+044B>
<U+044B><U+044C> <U+043C> <U+043A><U+043E>
<U+043B><U+044C><U+044F><U+043D><U+043E>,
<U+043F><U+043E><U+043B><U+044F><U+044F> <U+043D>
<U+044B> <U+043B><U+043E><U+044F> <U+043C>
<U+043B><U+044B><U+043C> <U+043B><U+044C><U+044F>
<U+043D><U+043C> <U+043A><U+043A> <U+043B>
<U+044F> <U+044B> <U+043A> <U+043B><U+044F>
<U+043A>. <U+043E> <U+044C> <U+044B> <U+043D>
<U+043E> <U+043D> <U+043F><U+043B>. <U+044B>
<U+043E><U+043E> <U+043E> <U+043D><U+043E>
<U+043B>, <U+043D><U+043E> <U+043D> <U+043A>
<U+043E><U+043D><U+043A><U+043D><U+044B> <U+043B>
<U+044F> <U+043E><U+044B> <U+043C>. <U+043D>
<U+043E><U+044C> <U+043C><U+043D><U+043A>
<U+043A><U+043B><U+043C>, <U+043D> <U+043D>
<U+043E><U+043A> <U+043B> <U+043E><U+043B>
<U+043D><U+044B> <U+043D><U+043C><U+044C>
<U+043B><U+044E> <U+043E><U+043B><U+043E>.
<U+044D><U+043E> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043D><U+044F>
. . <U+043D> <U+043C><U+043D><U+044F> <U+043C>
<U+043E> <U+043F><U+043B><U+043E><U+043E>
<U+043D><U+043B><U+043A>.
for what it means fawlty7 has the peoples diplos endorsement.
having though only known fawlty for the past two years, i think
without his initial leadership back in the main autz squad in goons
that made the game so fun for me i would have likely not stayed
within the game. from getting to know him initially in-game to
meeting him in reality he is indeed a strong leader and is not
scared to let his opinion be heard. through all the things tikle has
so far gone through, the fact that the alliance still stands and even
after out multiple sov-evictions, most members of the alliance
stayed through it all, to which i believe is a strong example of
fawlty's leadership.+1 here.
nothing fawlty about fawlty7, good dude to fight good dude to
drink with all around good dude. that being said, he does go on
and on about it always being his 'birthday', says he gets lots of
free crap from restaurants and he printed 365 fake drivers
licenses with different date of births, so he can get free food and
drinks and cheap tickets to the cinema. bit sad a (barely) grown
man faking his birthday for attention :)
about time low-sec get a representation!
as a white man, i can 100% throw my support behind jonatan
reed because, white people. thanks obama.
well, since you're apparently willing to do ccp's work for free,
you'll have my vote. not because you're doing it for free, but
because you're doing it right. but i still believe you've got
scammed into this.but hey, you look like a grown up and the
choice here is yours. se, be it.
ccp should hire steve already, but until that happens, he gets a
solid +1 from me.
with most people you would be right to get a little weary of
someone who has been on the csm as long as steve has - but he
really is the exception to the incumbency rule. from the moment
csm 11 stepped in, he was the font of institutional knowledge that
we all relied upon to ease the transition period, and kept up that
positive helpful attitude all the way through. his areas of expertise
are those which very few candidates can offer insight on, making
him a great representative for third party developers and market
nerds alike. high sec and industry nerds need not look any further
for their go-to candidate for csm 12 and i hope you all will cast
your support behind the man - the myth - the beard - fuzzy steve
ronuken.
has my vote (again).
steve is an amazing man, and it's not just because he has the
beard of a god. i pity anyone running on a
market/industry/highsec platform, because you will never find a
better candidate than steve. i can't imagine a csm without steve
ronuken! he will be on my ballot!
hello steve, thanks for running again. me, my alt and i will be
voting for you.if i can pose a few questions;1) mining crystals is
one of the most complex munitions in eve with a specialization
down to individual ores. yet the refining rigs from upwell are
simplified into primary groups. what is your view here?2) outer
ring excavations is restricted to null sec, whilst sisters of eve and
thukker are available within high-sec without restriction. why do
you think this is so?3) the values of faction standings have been
eroded with loss of anchorage and jump clone.what do you think
can be added to restore the prestige of having earnt standings?
i wholeheartedly support capri for csm 12. he is a level-headed
and articulate player who will be able to build upon the successes
of csm 11 had in restoring productive relations with ccp. he has
two of the most important skills for any successful csm candidate:
(1) understanding the real role of the csm and how council
members should behave; and (2) proving well-written constructive
feedback on the game without letting things get hostile. it is easy
to complain - the playerbase is very good at that. it is an entirely
different thing to be able to find the root of a problem, and
propose a well-thought-out solution or change that benefits the
game as a whole. i am confident capri will be a valuable addition
to the csm team, and will be able to bring his particular subject-
matter expertise to bear while also supporting other areas such as
game balance and small/solo pvp. best of luck on your campaign.
heya folks, i<U+FFFD>m robin, my character name is kalbuir
skirate and i<U+FFFD>m hoping to become part of the csm this
year. in this post i will introduce myself, and explain my platform,
credentials, passion, and focus. introi<U+FFFD>m a director at
pandemic horde, where my focus is on our new player experience
and our tooling & analyses (square). what this means is that i
spend all my free time helping new players in various ways: i
founded and actually run the newbean initiative (nbi) which is our
<U+FFFD>new player<U+FFFD> helpers group within pandemic
horde. a collection of super useful people who spend all their free
time helping new players. i've worked hard to find ways to
improve horde for new players, in shape of our flight schools,
classes, centralizing information and ways to distribute isk
towards new players. i<U+FFFD>ve discovered ways that enable
us to help more people, faster, and more efficiently. this focus is
the only reason we were able to cope successfully with huge
influx of new players during wwb and ascension patch. to put it
into perspective we handed out 10,000 ships and 50,000
skillbooks in the first two week of the patch. i collect and process
feedback on horde specifically as a means to improve our
alliance. i run all the industry for the ships that gets handed out to
new players. finally, helping new players in-game (duh). it might
not look like it but much of this collides with our tooling and
analyses. this allows us to gauge if changes we make have any
effect on metrics. we also automate a lot of mundane tasks
through the eve api which allows us to spend more time on stuff
that is important rather than tasks that just needs to be done.
i<U+FFFD>m not going to talk too much about tooling as this is
not why i'm running for csm. for me eve<U+FFFD>s
api<U+FFFD>s, analyses and tools are a means to free up as
many useful people so they can do what they truly enjoy: help
new players. why the csmi<U+FFFD>ve had an interest in the
game industry, online games and online communities for much of
my life. if we go back about 15 years, it wasn<U+FFFD>t
uncommon at all for a game company to have a council of
players, class leads or community representatives. skip forward
and to my knowledge ccp remains one of the only companies that
upholds this practise to a high level. i believe in this concept and
have a huge passion for online communities which for eve the
csm is a vital part of. while it is a lot of work both for ccp and the
players involved, it is my opinion that this collaboration contributes
significantly to making the gap between players and developers
smaller. however all of this stands and falls with having the right
csm members with the time, intellect and motivation for the job. i
think after 2015<U+FFFD>s csm a lot of us were starting to
wonder if all the effort and time put in was worth it. i can
confidently say that 2016<U+FFFD>s csm proved to us that they
can be useful and contribute to eve<U+FFFD>s developments
cycle in a meaningful way. for 2017 it<U+FFFD>s important we
continue this trend and elect competent csm members.i believe i
can be one of the csm members that has a positive effect on the
game and provide something that i already offer my alliance, a
funnel for feedback regarding new players. much of the analyses
and ideas in horde are things that we can only take so far without
running into game limitations. my hope is that by broadening that
scope of feedback to all of eve<U+FFFD>s players we can work
towards solving some of these issues or at the very least get them
on the agenda to be discussed.importance of csm this yearafter
phase 1 of the npe last year, 2017 is going to be a very important
year for the success eve has with new players and potentially the
future success of eve. from what i heard at eve vegas, phase 2
and 3 of the npe are going to completely change how new players
learn the many aspects of eve. while i<U+FFFD>m very excited
about this new direction, i also feel strongly that ccp needs all the
help it can get to get it just right. i will say it again for emphasis:
ccp needs all the help it can get to get it just right.you could argue
that running for csm with a voting platform that almost solely runs
on new players is a waste of everyone's time. many old players
(cough bittervets cough) don<U+FFFD>t care about new players,
and many new players don<U+FFFD>t know about the csm - well
let's change that! the real kicker however is that we should all
care. if eve is to exist for another 13 years. the npe that both the
eve community and ccp provide go hand in hand with retaining
more players. eve<U+FFFD>s biggest issue isn<U+FFFD>t
pulling in new players; the issue is holding on to them and
introducing them to enough core features that will get them
hooked and in love with the game as we all are. in my opinion one
of the biggest struggles of explaining eve is that both ccp and the
community have been playing this game for so long that there is
so much knowledge that is implied and accepted to be common
knowledge that it gets skipped over when trying to retain or
explain things to new players. luckily team genesis has been
taking a good hard look at that and is definitely on the right track.
if we look at the last 2 years ccp has been on the right track in my
opinion with ascension. however, beyond that we have the
smaller changes such as the adjustment of starting skills, inject all
skillbooks feature, multi buy, multi-fit and skillpoint injectors that
allow new players to customize their character a lot better than
the character bazaar offers. there is a lot left to be done and i wish
that there was more room for smaller changes like those
mentioned above that would do a lot of good for the quality of life
of new players.
i want to contribute to the npe as much as i can and feel it's
something every player in eve should at least slightly care about.
attracting new players to eve keeps the game going, creates more
content and most importantly fills up the galaxy. i'm not running
based on an idea that i'm single-handedly going to save eve or
make eve<U+FFFD>s meta great. i think it<U+FFFD>s rather
delusional that you<U+FFFD>re going to achieve that as a csm
member. your role isn<U+FFFD>t to be a game designer but a
player with an opinion and the ability to funnel other players
feedback. instead, i'm running based on something i am confident
in, have expertise in and care deeply about. i already spend all of
my free time on the npe, with a lot of enthusiasm and joy, adding
a csm perspective to would be another great motivator and
something i would do with a lot of satisfaction. the key to the csm
in my opinion is this: the ability to deliver proper feedback, able to
keep an open mind about changes, but most importantly
remember that you<U+FFFD>re not there for yourself but for the
community. meaning that staying in touch and true to the
community that is key. my expertisein two words my expertise and
value to the csm are npe and toolingnpei can confidently say that
i<U+FFFD>m one of the few people in eve that experiences the
struggles of new players and works towards improving them daily.
in the nearly 2 years that i<U+FFFD>ve been trying to improve
horde<U+FFFD>s npe, horde has been improving bit by bit,
tweaking and streamlining things to affect our retention and
success of explaining eve. we<U+FFFD>ve come a long way but
at the same time i feel i could quit my job spend 112 hours a
week on improving horde and still have a lot to do. there is plenty
of overlap between new players struggling in horde and in eve in
general; such as the ui, what is and isn<U+FFFD>t explained,
reliable ways to make isk and how they are taught (or
aren<U+FFFD>t). however there is also a lot of differences, for
one thing eve<U+FFFD>s new player experience in nullsec is
entirely different from the experience in wormhole space, lowsec
and highsec. i don<U+FFFD>t have the delusion that i have the
answers on how to fix eve<U+FFFD>s npe for all these
playstyles. a csm member is only as good as the people he is
willing to listen to. i<U+FFFD>m willing to listen to everyone who
can take the time to phrase his ideas and constructive criticism
properly. i want to broaden my horizon by not just focusing on
horde<U+FFFD>s npe but look at the bigger picture together with
anyone willing to contribute to it.if going to fanfest, eve vegas and
other fan gatherings has taught me anything, it's that there are a
lot of smart and passionate people in eve<U+FFFD>s community.
all of which love to talk about their space hobby (or job :) ). i enjoy
listening to those people more than learning about new features
or announcements, because that isn<U+FFFD>t what fan
gatherings are about. in my opinion they are about making new
friends, meeting existing ones and sharing a hobby. i want to
listen to as many of you as possible and have some ideas on how
to do this effectively if i am fortunate enough to become csm
member. toolingas for tooling, being a middleware consultant and
full stack developer in real life i am someone that looks at data as
a valuable asset that supplements a process, the process in
horde<U+FFFD>s case is turning a new player to a long term eve
player. eve has such a wide range of publicly and privately data
available that it becomes an awesome repository for analyses and
tooling. horde uses much of this data to save valuable time and
help new players. this is something i could write a long article
about but i<U+FFFD>ll do that another time, a quick tldr
impression you could obtain from the screenshots below.
screenshotshaving spent almost 2 years integrating data and
tooling for horde i can confidently say i have a firm grasp of the
various api<U+FFFD>s eve offers(crest / xml api / esi) as well as
the limitations and potential growth it could make.thank you for
considering me as your csm member and please feel free to ask
me any questions. i look forward to answering
them.regards,kalbuir skiraterobin
hi, when i heard about wwb, i finally decided to try out eve. i joined
the game on trial account and within 4 hours, i was on the front
lines getting blown up in ships provided to me by nbi, a program
led by kalbuir. if it was'nt for the people in nbi, who guided me for
4 hours and tolerated my stupid and silly questions, i may not still
be here. but when i experienced pvp and hundreds of pilots
fighting in space, i knew this was the game for me and 9 months
or so later, i'm still here.nbi gave me the skill books, the skill
plans, and the ships to pursue several aspects of nullsec. pvp,
mining, exploration,ratting and many other things (memes ). this
allowed me to go ahead and give a shot at everything without
there being any hurdles.everytime fleets went out at the time and
when they still go out, newbeans are specifically encouraged to
join and they get free ships. this culture has it's roots in nbi.
despite the nullsec politics and horde's involvement, the alliance
still primarily caters to new players. you wont be surprised that the
leaders of one of the biggest entities in-game spend considerable
time flying newbean ships and tweaking the fittings to ensure
effectiveness of ships in fleets as well as the ability of the new
players to fly them and make an actual difference and contribution
in the fights. i cannot tell you how many brand new players i've
seen who have been super-thrilled when their merlin tackles an
opponent's ship for the first time and that leads to those ships
being blown up. if you remember your first time, you'll know
exactly the amazing feeling that i'm talking about. kalbuir, has
been the point man that enables this. training new players is just
one thing, training content-creators is also important and horde's
leadership allows anyone to fc the fleets and actually train fcs too.
kalbuir is being quite humble about the amount of work he does
for horde and makes things smooth for us in terms of services that
he has coded for us. kalbuir, you have been a great help, without
the support structure that you established, i probably may not
have stayed around in eve.thank you for the services. i believe
your first hand knowledge and experience in designing and
implementing npe is a great contribution to horde and eve
community. you have trained 1000s of capsuleers and we're
proud to call you our director.o/
kalbuir is a guy who genuinley cares about this game and the
npe. he has innovative solutions to even the most complex of
problems, puts others intrests before his own and would be a
genuine asset to the csm. the amount of work this guy puts into
horde is insane and i have no doubts that his work for the csm
would be treated with the same dedication. if the npe, api or just
having a smart, hardworking guy on the csm matters to you,
please cast a vote for kal.
i don't think it's any exaggeration to say (personal opinion) that
pandemic horde would not be the force it is today were it not for
the unstinting efforts of kal to try and make us the most effective
group around when it comes to helping new players into the game
- and then to retaining those players. i'm not putting down any of
the other groups and small corps who help new players into the
game, but i really believe we have a system that must rank up
there with the most efficient in eve. please take the time to check
out the screenshots, for example, and try and get a handle on
what we have access to in order to help new players.kal devotes
an inordinate amount of time to this. he is totally passionate about
what he does, and he inspires all of us to be as passionate as he
is in helping new players find their feet. i am a very proud member
of horde's newbean initiative (nbi) and i devote some of my time to
helping new players out. note, i said some. i have other things i
like to do and horde lets me do them. kal devotes his time to the
new players and to us in the nbi, to help us become great
ambassadors for the game to our new members.a vote for kalbuir
skirate isn't a vote for pandemic horde, it is a vote for a man who
will be as passionate on the csm towards helping the new player
experience for the whole of eve, as he is towards helping the new
player experience for people joining pandemic horde and he will
come at it with a staggering amount of knowledge and
understanding of how eve works (and how it doesn't). kal will
make a difference and it will help all who play this wonderful
game.+1

kalb is a man.
acknowledging that being on the csm isn<U+FFFD>t about wish
fulfillment and you don<U+FFFD>t really go there to give direction
but to provide advice on a direction, feedback on plans and to
help brainstorm <U+FFFD>what if<U+FFFD>s<U+FFFD> when
asked<U+FFFD> can you provide us some examples of what
your constructive feedback would look like on any current
mechanics, functionality or balance you feel passionately about?i
realize that's an open ended question without any specifics or
quantities requested. i<U+FFFD>m asking because i want others
(and myself) to see an example of your thought process, level of
knowledge, writing style and hopefully balanced approach when
talking about a topic you are passionate about. i think it is
important that csm members have the ability to talk rationally and
intelligently about topics they feel are important and can take into
account play styles other than their primary chosen style. ie: can
you represent (to the best of your ability) the entire player base on
general topics and on topics that you have a greater knowledge
can you engage in discussion that involves seeing the topic not
only from your particular play style.other than the question above
- i already like you because you do amazing work with horde and
it has been a pleasure seeing you work your magic keeping our
newbean chaos organized. thanks for all you do kalbuir.
i am simply 1 of 1000s of success stories that could be attributed
directly to kalbuirs hard work. but instead of bragging about all the
kills ive been apart of (
greetings all,after much thought and discussions with my wife and
friends, i have decided to finally put in my ticket as a candidate for
the twelfth installment of the council of stellar management. i
actually intended to start campaigning this year for csm xiii but i
think there is no better time than now to see if i can gain more
traction by running this year as well. who is kael decadence?well
i<U+FFFD>m glad you asked. while you may see that my
character has been active since 2006, i wouldn<U+FFFD>t say
that i started playing eve online until 2013. like many players, i
found a free trial of the game, installed it and made my character,
and had no damn idea how to play the game. it didn<U+FFFD>t
make sense and didn<U+FFFD>t play like any other video game i
had ever played. so i gave up. every so often i would get an email
from ccp letting me know that there was a free weekend for
returning players to come check out the game again and see what
was new, so i would install the game and recover my password
only to be again disappointed and still not understanding how to
play this game.it wasn<U+FFFD>t until i was in afghanistan for
my 4th deployment that i saw on a real news source, something
about an eve online battle that costs tens of thousands of dollars.
when i read about the battle of 6vdt-h, i knew that i should take a
second look at eve online. while i waited to get home to install the
game, i took the time to start watching youtube videos and learn
everything that i could about how to play before i even stepped
back into the game.since then i have been in a few corporations
while i learned how to play for really the first time, and took longer
than i would have liked to start feeling like i got it. searching
around on google for a ship fit one day for an algos, i came
across a fit on a site for the high drag podcast. i knew what a
podcast was, but didn<U+FFFD>t realize that this game had one.
so i started listening to everything they had. then i realized there
were more podcasts about this game i was starting to fall in love
with. then i found eve radio and dj big country, the podside
podcast, and so many more. i was hooked.one friday morning in
germany (which was when podside with manny bothans aired live
on thursday stateside) i was invited to fill in as a guest for my
favorite eve online podcast, podside<U+FFFD>s thirsty thursday
edition. i kept coming back week after week to lend my voice to
the show, even when the time changed and it was at 4 am for me.
i didn<U+FFFD>t care, i loved talking about this game that i loved
now. i joined a wormhole corp with kazumi, one of the hosts, and
learned so much more than i had to that point.after making the
rounds as a guest host on ever edition of the podside podcast
before it shut down, an appearance on the open coms show, and
starring on manny bothans is primary, i decided to start my own
podcast with meredudd. nearing its 23rd episode, our show is
now over 10,000 downloads and is syndicated on crossing
zebras. not only that, i have been a writer for imperium news ever
since i started a campaign called eve an hour.why am i running?
over the past few months i have been very vocal about how the
game needs to adapt to allow new players to more easily learn
how to play the game. for a long while, even before the new npe
and alpha clone state, i had been adamant that ccp needed to
make some changes to help new players get into the game. in
2016 i hosted an player meet up and started talking to new
players (and recruiting prospective players) in the game,
culminating in me starting the eve an hour campaign to help
bridge the gap between veteran players and new alpha clones.it
amazed me how many players were joining the game and were in
the same boat i was back in 2006. they joined the game because
of all the advertising on game news websites about being free,
but just a few hours into it they had no idea what to do. i decided
to do the new <U+FFFD>npe<U+FFFD> and started talking to
people in the rookie help chat about it. from what i gathered by
doing it myself, and from talking, nothing had been changed to
really help anyone want to continue with the game. if that had
been the npe that i experienced in <U+FFFD>06, i still would
have left the game. it did nothing for me as a veteran, and
wasn<U+FFFD>t doing anything for these new players. hence i
started doing what i could to help new players find their way
through the game.what i found was that the isd, game masters,
and <U+FFFD>official<U+FFFD> representatives of ccp and eve
weren<U+FFFD>t very helpful in the help channel and that the
best help was found from players watching streamers and talking
to other players. one day in rookie help i had been answering
questions and pointing people to my discord channel for two
hours before a gm finally chimed in and said i couldn<U+FFFD>t
advertise my unbiased help in a help channel. two hours and i
was the only person giving help and advise in a help channel
before i was told that i wasn<U+FFFD>t allowed to give that
help.if i wasn<U+FFFD>t vocal about my desire to help new
people before then, i was now. so if i have a platform at all, its to
help new players. this is what i want to do.
what will i do if elected?- be a voice for those who still are learning
to speak- be in a position where my help is taken more seriously
and be legitimate- advocate on behalf of new players and help
make the game more easily learned- show veteran players that its
not their way or the space highwaylook, i know being a csm
doesn<U+FFFD>t mean being a junior dev. i know that i
can<U+FFFD>t force changes onto ccp. what i can be is be a
voice of reason when the developers are planning on, or have
done something, that just doesn<U+FFFD>t work for the entire
player base. having lived in every area of new eden and tried my
hand at everything, and having gone through the rough self
taught method that i did, i feel that i am more able to present the
ideas and frustrations that a new player might have. in some
respects, i still consider myself new and have so much more to
learn, but at the same time i think my perspective and viewpoint is
enough in line with the alpha mindset that i can effect and
provoke a strong dialogue. that is really what i want to be able to
do, open the dialogue and bridge the gap between the old and
new as i am somewhere in between.how to contact mealthough i
have made myself very accessible, there are probably a lot of
people who don<U+FFFD>t know how to contact me and might
want to ask me questions. if you want to chat or ask about my
thoughts on what i can do for you and csm, reach out to me
though the following methods;@kaeldecadence on
twitter@kaeldecadence on tweetfleet slackkael decadence#0732
on discordkaeldecadence@gmail.com/u/kaeldecadence on
redditand you can always reach out to me in game or here on the
forums.thank you for reading my post and i wish good luck to all
of the candidates for this csm session.
* wormholes. i want to see more wormholes, especially in 0.0. this
a great feature in eve, allowing all sorts of ship/gangs to move
around eve and create content wherever they end up.<U+043C>
<U+043D> <U+043E><U+043F><U+043B><U+043D><U+043D>
<U+043E> <U+043D><U+044F> <U+044D> <U+044F>.
<U+043E><U+043E>, <U+043B> <U+043F><U+043E>
<U+043D><U+043C><U+044C> <U+043D><U+044B>
<U+043E><U+043B><U+044C><U+043D> <U+043A><U+043F>
<U+043B><U+043E> <U+043B><U+044C> <U+043F>
<U+043E><U+043C><U+043C> <U+043C> <U+043F>
<U+043E> <U+043F><U+043F><U+043C>, <U+043D>
<U+043F><U+043C>:- <U+043A>- <U+043B><U+043E>
<U+043A>- <U+044B>- <U+043C> <U+043D><U+043E>-
<U+043F><U+043E><U+043E><U+043E> <U+043E><U+043E>
<U+043B><U+044F>- <U+043F><U+043F>- <U+043C>
<U+043D><U+043A> <U+043D><U+043D> <U+043F>
<U+043E><U+043B><U+043C><U+043D><U+044B> <U+043C>
<U+043F><U+043B><U+043E><U+044C> <U+043E>
<U+043D><U+043D> <U+043C><U+043E> <U+043F>
<U+043B><U+043E><U+043E> <U+043D><U+043B><U+043A>
<U+043D> <U+043B><U+043E> <U+043A><U+043E>
<U+043E> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043E><U+043D><U+043E>
<U+043E> <U+043F><U+043A> <U+043A><U+043A>
<U+044B>, <U+043D>.
i thank you for your comments, i am very shameful yes. but i
would be a great help to the russian community also, in rus rus
rmt tz i would make more wh's randomly spawn so the horses
could find you.
i actually smiled a little...
are you saying that the goons are better then mexican or the
chinese?#deletetheweak
would you like to come on the mind clash podcast to discuss your
bid for the csm?
at the risk of sounding stupid, i am putting this post up because i
am rather ignorant of the current issues that people want ccp to
address via the csm. i took a year off and came back last may but
i spent most of that time just getting myself re-familiar with what
was changed, new sov mechanics, fleet doctrines, and just
generally relaxing and having fun.so, what are the big issues in all
the aspects of eve like pvp, mining, industry, etc.?
greetings,i am scylus black, former ceo of ccdm and former
alliance executor of templis calsf (01/2013-10/2016) i represent
low-sec with a core focus on small to medium scale pvp and
faction warfare i have continually served the caldari state for 45
years and have been an active participant in low-sec life i submit
my candidacy to the csm as an effort to bring representation to
this part of eveoutlined below are some of the major points i will
be bringing to the table:- reaching healthy pvp balance at the solo,
small, and medium scale especially with relevance to low-sec
pilots- citadel balance, especially within faction warfare space-
various fw related issues including but not limited to:- current
warzone control method and system flipping mechanics are long
due for a second look- tendency for fw members to turn pirate
(negative security status) due to current plex mechanicsi believe
the points above and partnering with the others leaders in csmxii
are mutually inclusive faction warfare is often a gateway to other
areas in our beloved game as that improves, so does the skillset
of those going elsewhere pvp attracted me years ago for the
engagements faction warfare attracted me for the flexibility to
login and pvp i merely needed to undock working with a cohesive
team with a faction warfare goal only improved that enjoyment
aside from the introduction of citidels there has not been a major
revamping or evolution that affected faction warfare in over 3
years i look to create awareness around the importance of the
faction warfare mechanic and how it adds value to those who are
pvp driven as well as how it compliments the low-sec lifestyle we
attract many groups, pirates included, into low-sec to compete
with us in pvp you can see the content in our numerous videos
we want to improve on that and the faction warfare portion while
evolving the new mechanicsi am a leader irl (chief operating
officer) i bring to the table a level of expertise characterized by
partnership and a co-creative relationship to get the job donei can
be reached in-game and slack (scylus black)i am available for
interviews and vetting of my candidacy i will be participating in
podcasts and other mediums to give you all an opportunity to
meet mei look forward to serving the entire community and seeing
the next evolution of our game!best,scylustemplis calsf
whqtemplis calsf youtubetemplis calsf zkillboard former executor
templis calsf alliance
i've known scylus for several years now over the years i've
witnessed scylus' unwavering passion for the game and
dedication to the pilots within our organization and militia at
largewhile hailing from caldari militia, i know that scylus is a
professional and will take an unbiased approach to low security
space and its mechanics his motivation is to simply ensure that
future mechanics, features and balance passes by ccp help or do
not harm the ecosystem within low sec for pvp and pve alikei also
believe that his high levels of dedication and passion for the game
will translate well to participation in the csm should he be elected
he won't take the commitment lightlyit's time that pilots living,
missioning, exploring, and fighting within low security space get
the representation they deserve on the the council of stellar
management and i believe scylus black would serve as an
excellent council membermember of #tweetfleet @stalence //
templis calsf // youtube channel
well spoken i too, can attest for scylus' leadership and conviction
having worked directly under him he is a man of his word and will
certainly look out for the greater good should he be chosen for the
csm it's time for low-sec and especially fw to have a voice on this
panelanybody wishing to contact scylus may also reach me via in-
game mail or message and i will be sure to pass it along to him via
direct channels
this man is certainly one of the top three judges i know off, along
with both judy and dredd.
i would like to also endorse judge. every time i have poked him
with a complaint / question / suggestion he has it onboard and
either come back to me with an answer, or even just a
sympathetic ear. i feel that he has the best intentions and best
actions at heart for the game.i am going to ask the same
questions as i asked fawlty71) how do you feel about timezone
tanking and what can be done to address this (if you think its
bad)2) how do you feel about 'tanking til dt'best of luck with your
re-election campaign mate.

in the short of it, nah.
thanks for the endorsement mr hyde :) i think i'm the best fit as a
candidate if you previously voted gorski car or mr hydecontributer
to eve is easy:
+1 sutonia is a rare breed of eve player who shows a depth of
understanding and theory crafting when it comes to pvp and
shows an understanding of ship roles and stats that few others
can match i am very pleased to see this candidate signing up to
step in
wannabee "atsf from wows", without the torpedobeat flavor,
would not vote.can't even follow the basic rule: "we are not cheap
captain" and don't have a monocle.should retract and go back to
farming the uss missouri tier ix premium ship.loyal servent to
mother amamake. @eve_tetsel
comparing someone who knows stuff, to someone who doesn't.
thank you for the support
aegis sov - goals note quite reached.so aegis sov set out with the
idea that the large scale bloated renter and vassal empires were
not conducive vibrant new eden, and the goal that they should be
forced apart via the stress and strain of the defense and
vulnerability mandates that the entosis and adm mechanics force
upon them. however, coupled with a few quality of life changes, in
conjunction with ship balance updates, it has instead had quite
the opposite effect - the empires have gotten larger and more
condensed, with the end result being the same - most sov is
rather stagnant.when they decided to put more anomalies in
systems, and more high quality anomalies in lower tru-sec
systems, it may have been designed with the intent to make some
space desirable, as for the longest time entire regions were
considered worthless thanks to low truesec. what it did, at least
from my viewpoint, was allow a compression of space - entities
can have much more ratting per system, and support many more
players with far fewer systems. on one hand this is good, on the
other hand liabilities do not grow linearly as entity size does -
entities do not need to spread out as they get bigger and incur
more vulnerabilities and organizational stress. basically instead of
leaning down the monolithic entities, it actively allowed them
control over just as many players in a more consolidated
fashion.then they rebalanced the roqual. on one hand, they
needed to make it defensible enough that people in all parts of
sov space would find it usable - its use couldn't just be the
domain of incredibly large monolithic entities. on the other, in
doing so, they created another one of these horrible problems of
scale for which they should know better. slowcats are a prime
example - a handful of remote rep carriers were not a balancing
problem, but 200 of them absolutely were. lone rorquals are
somewhat threatened, but large groups of rorquals in hardened
space are practically invulnerable. topping this all off, unlike
ratting anomalies where one attains the optimal isk/hr by soloing
them, many rorquals may comfortably share an ore site, making
even easier to defend large fleets of these. essentially, you can
now cram more players into a sov system, doing safer activities,
which scale and pay better, than ever before, meaning the
empires' footprints on the map may be shrinking, but they are just
as monolithic as before, if not worse. aegis sov was supposed to
increase strain on larger organizations, but now more than ever
they have an easier time holding even more players with fewer
liabilities. mayhaps there are open spots on the map, but they are
not really open in a game when numbers mean everything, and
player monopolies are even more easily held.
wardecs - content seeds in salted fields. good mechanics are like
seeds. if they are carefully nurtured by players, they present an
opportunity to grow into content, likewise if players see no fruitful
end, they will simply discard the seed to the wind. the problem
with wardecs currently can be summed up as much - both
involved parties involved in them rarely see a potential end they
would like to work for, so they typically grow into nothing.
everyone wants more people undocked, more things to fight for,
more things to get, and more things to lose - every mechanic that
encourages participation is good for the game.it's time to make
wardecs produce, rather than stifle content.say i belong to a
dedicated pve corp in high sec. on their weekly rotation, one of
the large wardec corporations wardecs my mission running corp.
the best solution would be to simply drop corp until they are done
with their dec. if you did rally the troops, possibly even get allies
and friends to assist you, possibly even hired mercenaries, the
wardeccers have nothing on the table - they would just dock up.
the war is unwinnable from the start because there is no way to
actually force the attacker to commit, no way to actually end the
war, and the attacker has nothing on the table to lose. once again
i go to my starting statement - content seeds are fruitful when
both sides see an outcome they want.say my own alliance is
wardecced. maybe it's any other alliance that lives in low or null.
the best solution is again, drop to an npc corp, or use out of
alliance alts. if we did bring a fleet to highsec looking for a fight,
it's plainly obvious we would not get one - the wardeccers would
dock up. once again, both parties cannot see an end they would
like to work towards. in this case low or null dwellers want a fight,
and most likely would not get one. in the former case, the hs
dwellers want to mine or mission, but cannot do so, and cannot
actually force a situation where they can do so again, regardless
of how much they rally. either way, the best solution is non-
participation, which is a net loss for new eden.things work
differently in a different rule set. even a tiny ante like a reinforced
pos or poco can spark massive conflicts in low or null, and a good
deal of this is because all involved parties have something they
want out of the situation - participation is the best solution. if there
was a way to force an end to the war, or create real risk for blindly
deccing most of the game, then more than one party may have
something they want out of the situation, and participation will be
a better strategy. there are a lot of proposed solutions as to the
nature and size of what wardeccers should risk to wardec.
ultimately, the solution must make the decced party's best solution
be participation or it is not a solution at all. however, the
wardeccers must realize too, that people are not going to
participate unless they can actually inflict real punishment of
some sort for the inconvenience they caused - what do they have
to gain by nurturing this content seed?

vic has my vote, he is passionate about content.
                                                                   1
current mechanics still make it easy for a much larger entity to
push a smaller one out. i believe there needs to be more
defensive bonuses for alliances holding sovereignty, it makes
sense that people should have to fight tooth and nail to push long
standing residents out of an area. citadels are also an emerging
mechanic that has presented potential issues, especially for
smaller alliances and their ability to counter them being placed by
hostiles within owned space'do you believe longevity of a group's
existence in some area means they deserve to have advantages
to holding it beyond what's already in the game? what advantages
might those be? how would you ameliorate the impact of greater
numbers on a smaller entity in taking of space? what increments
would they kick in at, or would it be ratios? also happy birthday!
you get my vote, the csm would benefit from having you there as
would we the players.
firstly, the csm is not a mechanics development group so it's not
really up to them/me to say this is exactly how it should be
however i will answer as best i can.i do believe that the longer a
group has occupied their current space there should be some
form of extra defensiveness provided, if you have spent 4 years in
an area developing it and investing isk into it, then yes there
should be more options to the defenders or at least some form of
passive bonuses that accrue over time. the kind of advantages i
believe would be realistic are more for mechanics related to
possible invasions, such as citadels vulnerability timers being
extended on citadels that do not belong to the sov owner. if it is
linked the the strategic index, at the very least the buffer comes
from time of sov ownership, alongside this perhaps there could be
additional levels of strategic index that go towards these bonuses
rather than adm for a system.with the proliferation of astrahus
being dropped all over the game there is quickly becoming many
safe havens for people within space they do not own. obviously
attackers need a chance at getting a foothold but the defender
should get a decent bonus to defending their own space. if it were
to be some form of additional adm accrued over time then i feel a
ratio system would probably be better, but that is something for
the real devs to design. i simply want to push the idea that it
needs to be more geared to a defender who has been there for a
longer period.honestly, the greater numbers vs smaller numbers
is always going to be down to balancing and even then, eve
players have a habit of breaking that as soon as humanly
possible. i believe in giving the defender an advantage, be they
big or small, will help alleviate some of those issues. the obvious
hurdle is to make ensure those bonuses scale well enough that
they don't make it impossible for any alliance big or small to be
removed.i hope this has helped. again i want to stress, i don't see
csm as a game developer job. its about providing feedback and
pointing out areas that we believe the playerbase desires
changes in.

jonatan reed is a good man. a vote for him is a vote for a greater
lowsec.
keep the good work, you got my voice,i'm third party developper, i
love your database conversion. if you can talk a few to improve
api for pos management (or citadell management in future, if they
replace moon mining pos)
you have my accounts votes yet again (for whatever that's worth).
i have some bones to pick however regarding group industry,
engineering complexes and very much agree with you around
mining changes. where did you suggestion box go? is it easier to
pester you on the tweetfleet slack?
sorry for that short delay in getting back to you:1) while mining
crystals are a complex munition, they also have the simplest
targets. you _know_ which crystal you should use on which
asteroid. it's explicit in the names. which balances out nicely. it
also gives a good reason for group play, with the more limited
cargo bays of the miners being supplemented by the boosters
larger general bay. mining crystals can also be swapped at
will.the refining rigs, on the other hand, are far more limited. once
installed, they can only be changed by destroying them. if they
were split more, then you'd need to have a greater number of
refineries. which isn't viable.2) you could expand the same
question to mordus legion. i _suspect_ the real reason is to add
'terrain' to nullsec, so there are reasons to control certain
systems. 3) i'm really not a fan of standings in their current form.
gating content behind a grind isn't fun. and jump clones hadn't
been a standing benefit for years. you either just joined a jump
clone corp for a day, or you had someone grind out standing in a
corp, and then share it with everyone else in corp (and bob
protect anyone who accidentally got standing with the donor
corp)however!:with the introduction of the mining npcs, we're
beginning to see where high standings have a use. where they
should. moderating npc behavior. sure, it's a limited number of
corporations at the moment, but long term, i'd expect to see more.
tweetfleet slack's a good place to grab me. i might not respond
immediately (for some reason, my boss actually expects me to
work during office hours. odd, right?) but i do try to get back to
everyone.depending on the format, evemail or email may work
better. or if we're massively off timezone.
steve is good people.outside of the political posturing, the meme
runs, and the general undesirables - stands steve.he's been a
pillar of the 3rd party community for years, and hopefully will
continue to be so for many more cycles(though if he can stop
running for csm so i can justify running myself.... ;) )the csm
landscape changes yearly, but steve is always guaranteed the
number 1 spot on my ballot.keep up the good work, and keep
making me resent you for the fact you keep running:) selling 2
travelfit erebus 1 rigged 1 unrigged 85bil ea
+1 pleased to see this incumbent csm member running again, his
ongoing commitment to 3rd party services and to the wider player
development community as well as his long relationship with ccp
will be a valuable asset to this year's csm.all our interaction
german versionrussian versiontl;dr:some more, young & fresh 3rd
party dev blood on the csm to improve alliances.previous
experience: alliance diplomat of gatekeepers universe
(hibernated) co-founder of the pebble.pact (together with raiden
markiv & z air) (replaced) it & diplomacy for alternate allegiance
and initially for drone walkers lumpy it team contributing feature
requests & endpoint specs to the new esi api eve_nt it team
creator of iskstarterwho i am:i am a 21 years old applied computer
science student from d<U+FFFD>sseldorf, germany.for about 3
years i<U+FFFD>ve been playing eve now, smaller subscription
breaks in between, although always keeping an eye on what was
going on ingame, feature & politics wise. i started my eve life in
high-sec, mining, when a friend recruited me into the game. after
about 3 months i stopped playing only to come back about a year
later to sit in jita and make the dank isk with station trading. when
said friend moved to null-sec i followed for the sole purpose of
putting up a moon mining & reaction farm. running moon
reactions yielded me nearly all of my income in eve, next to the
trading i did when i was in jita.fast forwarding to when i took over
most diplomatic functions of the alliance we were in back then,
organized defense fleets between local alliances in the drone
lands when phoebe came out and our neighbourhood suddenly
had phoebe freeport republic, the roc. and other entities flying
around in these regions. this time yielded me some great
friendships, even with people i fought against at that time. in the
following years i also made some <U+FFFD>enemies<U+FFFD>
out there in the dronelands, mostly fellow german speaking
pilots.for those of you who judge people by their killboards, enjoy
mine, it<U+FFFD>s mostly empty. no, this is not some forum alt, i
actually only have one account i play with, recently another one
was added purely to have more corporation/alliance holding
capacity.i don<U+FFFD>t like to pvp a lot, sometimes i fly out
with friends but usually i prefer not to. i like to observe or help
people that fight my fights, bravely, sitting in their ships, while i
watch the killboard.what i currently do:most of the time i help
friends to work together, supply people with stuff they need or
simply help them solve their it issues. i wrote my own
<U+FFFD>alliance auth as a service<U+FFFD>, currently write
some zkillboard/eve-gate/evewho style website based on the new
esi api and obviously iskstarter which will hopefully use the new
api soon aswell, once wallet journal is available via esi.my
agenda:my main focus here is obviously 3rd party development.
while steve ronuken has done a great job in the past and
continues to do so i think there is always room to expand 3rd party
development, especially into directions he does not partake in.
this means, i don<U+FFFD>t want to replace him on the csm but
work there together with him. he is mostly industry and high-sec
focussed while i am more concerned about the issues null-sec
alliances are facing including management and organization, intel
gathering and counter-intelligence.contact me: tweetfleet slack
and reddit: robbilie skype: robert-schuh mail: csm@eneticum.de
jabber: rschuh@eneticum.de (if your alliance jabber supports
federation you can write with me via your alliance jabber)
german versiontl;drein weiterer, junger 3rd party entwickler
f<U+FFFD>r den csm um allianzen zu verbessern.bisherige
erfahrungen: allianz diplomat von gatekeepers universe
(hibernated) mitgr<U+FFFD>nder des pebble.pact (zusammen
mit raden markiv & z air) (ersetzt) it & diplomatie bei alternate
allegiance und anf<U+FFFD>nglich f<U+FFFD>r drone walkers
lumpy it team beisteuern von feature requests & endpunkt
spezifikationen f<U+FFFD>r die neue esi api eve_nt it team
urheber von iskstarterwer bin ich:ich bin ein 21 jahre alter
<U+FFFD>angewandte informatik<U+FFFD> student aus
d<U+FFFD>sseldorf, deutschland.seit ungef<U+FFFD>hr 3
jahren spiele ich nun eve mit kleinen subscription
unterbrechungen zwischendurch, allerdings immer wachsam das
spielgeschehen betrachtend, auf features & politik bezogen.ich
habe mein eve leben im high-sec minernd begonnen als ein
freund mich in das spiel brachte. nach ca. 3 monaten
h<U+FFFD>rte ich auf um ein jahr sp<U+FFFD>ter wieder
zur<U+FFFD>ck zu kommen und in jita auf der station sitzend zu
handeln. als besagter freund ins null-sec zog folgte ich ihm um
moon-mining & eine reaction-farm zu betreiben. dies brachte mir
nahezu mein gesamtes einkommen in eve ein, abgesehen von
dem station trading in jita.fast forward <U+FFFD>bernahm ich die
meisten diplomatischen funktionen der allianz in der wir zu dem
zeitpunkt waren, organisierte verteidigungs flotten zwischen den
lokalen allianzen der dronelands als phoebe herraus kam und in
unserer nachbarschaft pl<U+FFFD>tzlich phoebe freeport
republic, the roc. und andere entit<U+FFFD>ten herum flogen.
diese zeit brachte mir einige gro<U+FFFD>artige freundschaften
ein, teil sogar mit leuten gegen die wir zu jener zeit
k<U+FFFD>mpften. in den folgenden jahren machte ich mir auch
einige <U+FFFD>feinde<U+FFFD> dort drau<U+FFFD>en, die
meisten davon wie ich, deutsche.f<U+FFFD>r die von euch, die
spieler nach ihren killboard beurteilen, geniesst meins, es ist
nahezu leer. nein, das ist kein forum-alt, ich habe wirklich nur
einen account mit dem ich spiele, vor kurzem ist ein weiterer
hinzu gekommen welcher ausschliesslich als holding-account
genutzt wird.ich mag pvp nicht sehr gerne, manchmal fliege ich
mit freunden aber ich ziehe es vor es nciht zu tuen. ich beobachte
gerne or helfe leuten die meine kriege f<U+FFFD>hren, tapfer, in
ihren schiffen sitzend, w<U+FFFD>hrend ich das killboard
betrachte.was ich zur zeit tue:die meiste zeit helfe ich freunden
zusammen zu arbeiten, leute mit dingen die sie brauchen zu
versorgen oder einfach ihre it probleme l<U+FFFD>sen. ich habe
mein eigenes <U+FFFD>alliance auth as a service<U+FFFD>
geschrieben, aktuell schreibe ich an einer zkillboard/eve-
gate/evewho alternative basierend auf der neuen esi api sowieso
offensichtlich, iskstarter welches hoffentlich bald auch die neue
api nutzen wird, sobald corporation wallet journal
dar<U+FFFD>ber abrufbar ist.meine agenda:mein hauptfokus
liegt augenscheinlich auf 3rd party entwicklung.
w<U+FFFD>hrend steve ronuken gro<U+FFFD>artige arbeit in
der vergangenheit geleistet hat und dies auch weiterhin in der
gegenwart tut so denke ich, dass es immer platz zur erweiterung
gibt bei der anwendungsentwicklung, speziell in den richtungen in
denen er nicht teil nimmt. damit gemeint ist, dass ich ihn nicht im
csm ersetzen will sondern viel mehr mit ihm zusammen arbeiten
m<U+FFFD>chte. er hat haupts<U+FFFD>chlich seinen fokus
auf industrie und high-sec w<U+FFFD>hrend ich mich
haupts<U+FFFD>chlich mit den problemen des null-sec
besch<U+FFFD>ftige wie zum beispiel management und
organisation, informations sammlung und
spionageabwehr.kontaktiert mich: tweetfleet slack und reddit:
robbilie skype: robert-schuh mail: csm@eneticum.de jabber:
rschuh@eneticum.de (wenn euer allianz jabber federation
unterst<U+FFFD>tzt k<U+FFFD>nnt ihm mir <U+FFFD>ber
euren allianz jabber schreiben)

russian version<U+043B>: <U+043D><U+043C><U+043D>
<U+043E><U+043E> <U+043A><U+043E> csm, <U+043F>
<U+043E><U+044E> <U+043B><U+043D> api <U+043B>
<U+044F> 3 <U+043E><U+043E><U+043D><U+043D>
<U+043F><U+043E><U+043C><U+043C> <U+043B><U+044F>
eve. (<U+043C><U+043D><U+043E><U+043D> <U+043B>
<U+044F> <U+043B><U+044C><U+044F><U+043D><U+043E>
<U+043E><U+043C> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043E><U+043D>
<U+043E>)<U+043F><U+044B> <U+043E><U+043F>
<U+044B>: <U+043F><U+043B><U+043E><U+043C>
<U+043B><U+044C><U+044F><U+043D> gatekeepers
universe. (<U+043C><U+043E><U+043E><U+043D>)
<U+043E><U+043B> pebble.pact <U+043C> raiden markiv z air.
it <U+043F><U+043B><U+043E><U+043C><U+043A>
<U+044F> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043A> <U+043B><U+044F>
alternate allegiance <U+043D><U+043B><U+044C><U+043D>
<U+044F> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043A> drone walkers
<U+044F><U+043B><U+044F><U+044E><U+044C> <U+044C>
<U+044E> <U+043A><U+043E><U+043C><U+043D><U+044B>
it <U+043E><U+043F><U+043D><U+044F> lumpy <U+043F>
<U+043B><U+043B> <U+043D><U+043E><U+044B>
/<U+044D><U+043A> <U+043F><U+043E> <U+044D>
<U+043D><U+043F><U+043E><U+043D><U+043C> <U+043B>
<U+044F> esi api <U+044F><U+043B><U+044F><U+044E>
<U+044C> <U+044C><U+044E> <U+043A><U+043E>
<U+043C><U+043D><U+044B> it <U+043E><U+043F>
<U+043D><U+044F> eve_nt <U+043E><U+043B><U+044C>
iskstarter. <U+043D><U+043C><U+043D><U+043E><U+043E>
<U+043E> :<U+043C><U+043D> 21, <U+044F> <U+043D>
<U+044E><U+043B><U+044C><U+043E>, <U+043C>
<U+043D><U+044F>. <U+044C> <U+043F><U+043E>
<U+043D><U+043F><U+043B><U+043D><U+044E>
<U+FFFD><U+043F><U+043A><U+043B><U+043D><U+044F>
<U+043D><U+043E><U+043C><U+043A><U+FFFD>.
<U+044E> eve <U+043E><U+043A><U+043E><U+043B>
<U+043E> <U+043B>, <U+044B><U+043B> <U+043D>
<U+043E><U+043B><U+044C> <U+043F><U+044B>
<U+044B>, <U+043D><U+043E> <U+043B><U+044F>
<U+044B><U+044C> <U+043A> <U+043F><U+043E>
<U+043E><U+044F><U+043E> , <U+044C> <U+043E>
<U+043D><U+043C> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043B>
<U+043A>, <U+043D><U+043E><U+044B> <U+043A>
<U+043E><U+043D><U+043D> <U+043F><U+043E>.
<U+043A><U+043A> <U+043C><U+043D><U+043E>,
<U+044F> <U+043D><U+043B> <U+043E><U+044E>
<U+043A><U+044C> eve <U+044F>, <U+043B>. <U+043C>
<U+043D><U+044F> <U+043F><U+043B><U+043B> .
<U+043C><U+044F> <U+043A><U+043E> <U+043D>
<U+044F> <U+043B> eve <U+043E><U+043B><U+044C>
<U+043A><U+043E> <U+043B><U+044C> <U+043B>
<U+044F> <U+043E><U+043E>, <U+043E><U+044B>
<U+043D><U+044C><U+044F> <U+043E>. <U+044D>
<U+043E> <U+044F> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043B><U+043B>
<U+044F> <U+043B> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043D>
<U+043C><U+044C> <U+043D><U+044C> <U+043D> .
<U+043E>, <U+043F> <U+043C><U+043D><U+044F>
<U+043B> <U+043D><U+043B>, <U+044F> <U+043F>
<U+043E><U+043B><U+043E><U+043B> <U+043D>
<U+043C>. <U+043D><U+043B><U+044F> <U+044F>
<U+043C><U+043E> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043E><U+044C>
<U+043D><U+043E><U+043B><U+044C><U+044E> <U+043F>
<U+043E><U+043E><U+043C> <U+043F><U+043E>
<U+043E><U+044B> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043A>
<U+043C><U+043D><U+043C><U+043E>. <U+043C>
<U+043D><U+043D><U+043E> <U+044D> <U+043C>
<U+043F><U+043E><U+043A><U+044B><U+043B> <U+043C>
<U+043E> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043D><U+043E>
<U+043A>. <U+043D><U+043A><U+043E><U+043E>
<U+043E> <U+043C><U+044F> <U+043C><U+043E>
<U+043A> <U+044B><U+043B> <U+043F><U+043A><U+043A>
<U+043F><U+043B><U+043E><U+043C><U+043A> <U+043F>
<U+043E><U+043B><U+043D><U+043E><U+043C><U+043E>
<U+044F> <U+043C><U+043E><U+043E> <U+043B>
<U+044C><U+044F><U+043D>: <U+044F> <U+043A>
<U+043E><U+043E><U+043D><U+043E><U+043B> <U+043B>
<U+043E><U+044B> <U+043B> <U+043E><U+043D>
<U+043E> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043B> <U+044B><U+043E>
<U+043E><U+043D><U+043E><U+043B><U+043D><U+044F>
phoebe, <U+043A><U+043E> <U+043F><U+044F><U+043C>
<U+043E> <U+043D> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043B>
<U+043B><U+044C> pfr, the roc. <U+043B><U+044C>
<U+044F><U+043D><U+044B> <U+043A><U+043D><U+044B>
<U+043E><U+043D>. <U+044D><U+043E> <U+043F>
<U+043E> <U+043E> <U+043D> eve <U+044F> <U+043F>
<U+043E><U+043B> <U+043E><U+043E><U+043C><U+043D>
<U+043E> <U+043A><U+043E><U+043B><U+043E> ,
<U+043B><U+044C><U+044F><U+043D> <U+043F><U+043E>
<U+043A><U+043E><U+043E><U+044B> <U+043C><U+044B>
<U+043E><U+043B>. <U+043D><U+043E> <U+044C>
<U+044F><U+043C> <U+043F><U+043E><U+044F> ,
<U+043F><U+044C> <U+043E><U+043B><U+044C><U+043D>
<U+043E> <U+043D><U+043C><U+043A><U+043E><U+043E>
<U+043E><U+044F> <U+043B> <U+043E><U+043D>
<U+043E> <U+043C><U+043D><U+044F> <U+044B>
<U+043E><U+044C><U+044E> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043D>
<U+043B>.<U+043B> <U+044B> <U+043B><U+044E>
<U+043A><U+043B><U+044E><U+043B><U+044C><U+043D>
<U+043E> <U+043F><U+043E> <U+043A>, <U+043E>
<U+044F> <U+043D> <U+043A><U+043D>. <U+043C>
<U+043E> <U+043F><U+043E><U+044C>, <U+043E>
<U+043D> <U+043F><U+043A><U+043A> <U+043F>.
<U+043C><U+043D><U+044F> <U+043E> <U+043A>
<U+043A><U+043D>, <U+043E><U+043D><U+043E>
<U+043D><U+043E><U+043C> <U+044F> <U+043E>
<U+043E><U+044C> <U+043E><U+043D><U+043C>,
<U+043D><U+043E> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043B><U+043D>
<U+043C><U+044F> <U+043F><U+043B><U+043E><U+044C>
<U+043E><U+043E> <U+043A><U+043E><U+043F>
<U+043E><U+043B><U+043C>.<U+044F> <U+043D>
<U+043E><U+043E><U+043E> <U+043B><U+044E><U+043B>
<U+044E> pvp, <U+043D><U+043E> <U+043B><U+044E>
<U+043C> <U+044C><U+044F><U+043C>, <U+043D>
<U+043E> <U+043F><U+043F><U+043E><U+044E>
<U+044C> <U+043E><U+043A> <U+043C><U+043E>
<U+043D><U+043E><U+044C> <U+043E>, <U+043F>
<U+043E><U+043A> <U+043E><U+044E><U+044E>
<U+043C><U+043D><U+044F>.<U+043C> <U+044F>
<U+043D><U+043C><U+044E><U+044C> <U+043D>
<U+043D><U+043D><U+044B> <U+043C><U+043E>
<U+043C><U+043D>:<U+043E><U+043B><U+044C><U+044E>
<U+044C> <U+043C><U+043D> <U+044F> <U+043F>
<U+043E><U+043C><U+043E><U+044E> <U+043E><U+043C>
<U+044C><U+044F><U+043C> <U+043F><U+043E>
<U+043E><U+043F><U+043E><U+043C> <U+043D>,
<U+043C><U+043A> <U+043B> it <U+043E><U+043F>
<U+043D><U+044F>. <U+044F> <U+043D><U+043F>
<U+043B> <U+043E> <U+043E><U+043D><U+043D>
<U+044B> <U+FFFD>alliance auth as a service<U+FFFD>,
<U+043D><U+043D><U+044B> <U+043C><U+043E>
<U+043C><U+043D> <U+043E><U+043A> <U+044F> zkb/eve-
gate/evewho <U+043E><U+044E><U+044F> <U+043D> esi api.
<U+043A> <U+044F> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043E>
<U+043C><U+043D><U+043E><U+043E> <U+043C>
<U+043D> <U+043E><U+043C> <U+043E><U+043D>
<U+043E><U+043D><U+044B><U+043C> <U+043C>
<U+FFFD> iskstarter. <U+043D><U+044E><U+044C>
<U+043E> <U+043A><U+043E><U+043E> <U+043F>
<U+043E> <U+043D> <U+043D><U+043E><U+044B> api,
<U+043A><U+043A> <U+043E><U+043B><U+044C><U+043A>
<U+043E> <U+043C> <U+043F><U+043E><U+044F>
<U+044F> <U+043D><U+043E><U+043C><U+043B><U+044C>
<U+043D><U+044B> <U+043D><U+043A><U+043E><U+043D>
<U+043B> <U+043B><U+043B>.<U+043E> <U+044F>
<U+043F><U+043B><U+044E>:<U+043C><U+043E>
<U+043E><U+043D><U+043E><U+043D><U+043E> <U+043E>
<U+043A> <U+044D><U+043E> <U+043E><U+043A> 3
<U+043E><U+043E><U+043D><U+043D> <U+043F><U+043B>
<U+043E><U+043D> <U+043B><U+044F> eve <U+043C>
<U+043E> esi api. <U+043D><U+043D><U+044B> <U+043C>
<U+043E><U+043C><U+043D> <U+043D> csm <U+044D>
<U+043C> <U+043D><U+043C><U+044F> steve ronuken,
<U+043E><U+044F> <U+043E> <U+043B> <U+044D>
<U+043E><U+043C> <U+043D><U+043E><U+043D>
<U+043C><U+044B>, <U+044C> <U+044B> <U+043E>
<U+043D> <U+043D> <U+043F><U+043D><U+043C>
<U+044F>. <U+043E><U+043D> <U+043E><U+043A>
<U+043E><U+043D> <U+043D> <U+043E><U+043A>
<U+043F><U+043B><U+043E><U+043D> <U+043B><U+044F>
<U+043D> -<U+043A>, <U+043E> <U+043C><U+044F>
<U+043A><U+043A> <U+044F> <U+043E> <U+043B>
<U+044C> api <U+043B><U+044F> <U+043D><U+044F>
<U+043E><U+043C><U+043E><U+043D><U+043E> <U+043D>
<U+043B><U+044C><U+043D><U+044B> <U+043B>
<U+043B>: <U+043C><U+043D><U+043C><U+043D>
<U+043C><U+043C><U+043E>, <U+043E> <U+043D>
<U+043B>, <U+043F><U+043E><U+043A> <U+043F>.
<U+043A><U+043E><U+043D><U+043A><U+044B>: tweetfleet
slack reddit: robbilie skype: robert-schuh mail: csm@eneticum.de
jabber: rschuh@eneticum.de (<U+043B> <U+043B><U+044C>
<U+044F><U+043D><U+043E><U+044B> jabber <U+043F>
<U+043E> federation <U+043C><U+043E> <U+043D>
<U+043F><U+044C> )
~ reserved ~
eve officially supports 5 langages and you only adress 3 of them,
which is already 2 more than any other candidate (and that's
nice), but what is your problem with japanese and french, not
~valued allies~ enought ?loyal servent to mother amamake.
@eve_tetsel
took me already quite some time to get the russian translation
:dmy french is a bit rusty and i dont speak japanese sadly (neither
russian, had to wait for the translation :p)i know that there are
certain groups playing eve that have issues with only having
these 5 languages available (spanish/portugese ppl) and while id
love to have localizations available for them, i strongly propose
only having english available simply because it eases
communication.and i know quite some ppl that learned english
through eve, even though its not good, its enough for
communication, which makes me happy :d
vote for me and i'll forward all votes to vincent minus 5%
+1 articulate and a polished writer who is plugged into the wider
eve community across a number of platforms, something that is
very much needed as a csm member in terms of ongoing
communication with the players as a whole.
my fellow space friends, i am officially running for reelection for
csm 12. it has been an adventure this year and i see no reason to
stop now. for those that don<U+FFFD>t know who i am i fly
proudly under the banner of the bastion in nullsec. however i am
also well rounded flying regularly in wormhole space where i am a
director in a low class wormhole corporation. that being said i am
by no means tied to these forms of gameplay as you will read
below.my rookie year on the csm my only justification for your
votes was my professionalism and dedication to make this game
the best possible. my dedication has not changed, but my
experience has. below i have listed some changes which i had
direct involvement:mining command ship rebalance <U+FFFD>
this was particularly special for me. i felt with boosting changes
coming it was a necessity that these ships get an overhaul. the
public document of my original proposal can be read here.
obviously ccp did not go with all of my recommendations but a
large portion made it to the final ship versions along with additions
i didn<U+FFFD>t think of. this coupled with a roundtable gave
invaluable feedback for ccp. citadel data removal on singularity
<U+FFFD> while not quite as big an issue in k-space (although
still abused) this problem was a huge in w-space. thankfully it has
been corrected now. engineering complex revision <U+FFFD>
during the final month, i passed on numerous recommendations to
the developers which they utilized directly in their final designs as
referenced in this article. production tax equation visualization
<U+FFFD> already released on singularity and coming on
tranquility, the production tax equation was a
<U+FFFD>blackbox<U+FFFD> of mechanics. ccp thankfully
agreed and now every step is represented allowing producers to
know what is going on. the entire year of csm 11 has been a team
effort, but these are the elements i'm personally most proud of.
this has been an effective, cohesive csm and i would proudly give
my vote to any returning candidates.thank you for your support.
*reserved*
i have worked with this human, this is a good human.
what, in your opinion, is the proper strategy for:1) getting new
players to both try eve and stick with it2) developing and
encouraging risk tolerance (sometimes seen as a huge reason to
just pve)3) encouraging a move into null/low/wh/anywhere but
hisec?4) what would make nullsec folks want to actually log in
without being ping'd by an fc?i'll take my answers off the air,
thanks...
i can recommend this guy!
i'll support leyanora 100%!passionate eve player, outstanding ceo
and trustworthy friend!
i also support ley 100%great ceo and always ready to help in
every situationthumbs up!
thumbs up for leydef gots my voice
build that wall really high ley
my man
what, in your opinion, is the proper strategy for:1) getting new
players to both try eve and stick with it2) developing and
encouraging risk tolerance (sometimes seen as a huge reason to
just pve)3) encouraging a move into null?4) what would make
nullsec folks want to actually log in without being ping'd by an fc?
i'll take my answers off the air, thanks...
the mobile scan inhibitors (msi) are a limited anti-gang deployable
structure that removes the ability for an enemy combatant to d-
scan anything within a 30km range of the the inhibitor, this
includes the use of combat scan probes. however, it itself can be
scanned down by combat probes.the problemwhile on paper this
looks like it might be a viable tool because an enemy does not
have the ability to know what might be lurking in that "hole in
space", practical application of this as a surprise tactic is very
limited and situational. as such, it is not commonly used for any
purpose including its intended one. the price point seems to be
about 30 to 35mil which is too high for a mere hour's functionality.
second, since the scan inhibitor is able to be probed down by
combat probes, you need to use at least two of them to have any
reasonable chance of effectiveness.i propose one of the following
solutions:1. dramatically reduce the build costs of the msi so that
they cost approximately 5 to 10mil isk. this would allow even one
man operations to put up at least two without impacting the user's
overall profitability.2. increase the deployment duration from 1
hour to 4 hours. this would offset the high-cost of this unit and
allow users to use them as a strategic asset.3. allow them to be
picked up and redeployed a limited number of times, between 3-5
times. this limited deployment will justify useage as it will allow
the user to move it to a more suitable location, in case they move
to another mission pocket, another belt, or another gate.
minutes, give us minutes.
aye please giveth us minutes i has't been waiting patiently, but
alas mine patience wears thin i wilt forsooth beest very depress'd
if 't be true thither art no minutes soon :(
this was the reason i actively seperated them, actually, i was able
to draw things that both parties agreed on. specifically that
perma-bumping was overall not a great mechanic, and that a
timer for it would be (as much as the exact time would be
debated) overall a positive gameplay experience change, even if
they disagreed with the philosophy behind it. both sides also
understood that there was an issue with information availability,
with gankers feeling that if there were more of a general
understanding of how it worked as an activity, people wouldn't be
as heavily negative towards it. gankees and anti-gankers also felt
that this information assymetry lead directly to a feeling of
dissatisfaction that also was unfairly weighted towards newer
players. one specific change brought by both sides that i felt was
worth escalating to team genesis was a one time warning for
newer players undocking with a large amount of worth in assets in
a t1 industrial, as it's not immediately apparent that one can be
killed in hisec. it would be simple to do, and help prevent a lot of
'bad feeling'. i gleaned a lot more from this, but these roundtables
in general are a way of me representing the interests of people
who i think aren't brought to the table effectively on the csm,
especially when i see a possibility of said interests being
addressed by ccp. see the pve townhall in the conclusion stages
of the shadow of the serpent event for another example of
ensuring that my own views are not unrepresentative of the
playerbase before talking directly with ccp.
+1 jin has embedded himself within the wider eve community on
a number of various communications platforms and is very
approachable. he has proven his ability to accurately,
methodically and comprehensively review and understand a
number of topics in both
wars need change
yes yes they do
i was immediately impressed with scylus' ability to lead and keep
members active and keep all involved egos in check he's been a
great leader in eve and a great help with rl issues involving his
pilots he's become aware of
scylus has been a major fixture in black rise for years and i
believe that he is a clear cut choice to represent fw, low sec pvp
im confident that with scylus will have nothing but positive
contributions to the improvement of low sec pvp and fw alike
it<U+FFFD>s my absolute pleasure to recommend scylus black
for csm with the eve online communityi have been one of scylus'
pilots from the time i was a fw new-bro i can also safely say he is
being humble in his description of his skills setsi thoroughly enjoy
my time working with scylus, and came to know him as a truly
valuable asset to templis as a whole and myself he is honest,
dependable, and incredibly hard-working in all aspects of eve
beyond that, he is an impressive leader who is always aiming to
improve all of ushis knowledge of eve and expertise in factional
warfare is a huge advantage to our entire alliance he put this
skillset to work in order to improve ccdm, templis and calmil as a
wholeoften funding projects himselfalong with his undeniable
talent, scylus has always been an absolute joy to work with he is
a true team player, and always manages to foster positive
discussions and bring the best out of other pilots both in fw and in
the surrounding areawithout a doubt, i confidently recommend
scylus to join your csm team as a dedicated and knowledgeable
player and an all-around great person, i know that he will be a
beneficial addition to your csm system and all eve playersplease
feel free to contact me in-game directly or via the gate's email
system should you like to discuss scylus<U+FFFD> qualifications
and experience further i<U+FFFD>d be happy and proud to
expand on my recommendationbest wishes,charlotte "the
reverend' de'berryccdm director of special operations & templis
training academy instructor
in what has been close to 3 years now that i've been in fw, scylus
has demonstrated himself to be among the prominent and
decisive leaders within calmil even from outside of his alliance, his
actions as a leader in the calmil coalition have proven to me that
he is among the best players out there who could adequately
represent those of us in faction warfare he has my votesua
sponte
in a perfect world we wouldn't need downtime at all. obviously this
would be the outcome i'd like to see the game move towards, and
something ccp has expressed interest with in the past. it is
arguably the most elegant solution to the "get out of jail free"
nature of downtime mechanics. if you are talking about structure
(more importantly, sov) timers that is a bit of a different issue.
within the confines of the current mechanics i don't see an easy
fix. but more importantly, it's not for the csm to find a fix. csm
members point out the issue and then it's on ccp to either a)
agree there is a problem and think about a fix or b) disagree and
take no action. i've brought up the overall issue of timezone
fragmentation with ccp though, so developers are aware, if that
makes you feel better.
the judge has been a constant and consistent force within the
csm, for both productivity, and also for outside communication. his
attendance at meetings is an indicator of the lengths he's willing to
go, and how dedicated he is to the csm. i cannot recommend him
for those who look for communication and responsibility in their
csm members enough, and he will be high on my ballot.
csm members circlejerking. npc agent tier portrait, generic
#19092 plateform, no flavor, named himself "the
judge".embarassing candidacy.
til speaking from experience in working with someone is circle
jerking.
how do you intend to continue your work in outside
communication, judge?do you have any new ideas on ways of
gathering feedback and disseminating it to ccp, or do you think
the tried and true methods of townhalls, threads and direct contact
work?you say the relationship is in a better place, how specifically
would you use that this year if re-elected to improve your
feedback? could you give us a bit of an 'in an ideal world' example
to elaborate?"face the enemy as a solid wall for faith is your
armor and through it, the enemy will find no breach wrap your
arms around the enemy for faith is your fire and with it, burn away
his evil"
you've got my vote!
lillik e here, announcing my candidacy for csmxii!who:i've been
playing eve online since 2010, have taken several breaks, then
restarted in 2013 and have continuously played since. i was a
member of eve university for almost a year; participating and
helping in their various <U+FFFD>campuses<U+FFFD>. this is
where i caught the w-space bug. after a few false starts, i settled
permanently in w-space, living in both low and high-class
holes.why:in my almost four years playing, i've noticed a
perpetual stagnation of female players. whether this is caused by
lack of interest, some stigma, or something more basic, is
unknown to me. i do know this game is enjoyable on many levels,
and could be enjoyed by anyone with the slightest of interest.i've
also noticed that there is a definite lack of female players in w-
space. whether by chance or by choice is also unknown. as a
female gamer, i don't see any space as particularly
<U+FFFD>better or worse<U+FFFD>, though i have my obvious
bias. how:my goals are twofold:help bringing more female players
to know, appreciate, and love all that is eve online.help bringing
more new (and not so new) female players to know, appreciate,
and love w-space.my goals will include outreach, and whatever
tools ccp will allow. this will be determined at a later date.what's
so great about this:bringing in more players, obviously. that
they're female players would be a nice balance, too. honestly, i'm
not here to re-invent the wheel, nor stand on some feminist soap
box. this is my little way of taking a great game and making it
greater!conclusion:do i have a chance of succeeding here. pretty
slim. after all, this is a popularity contest, and i'm a relative
unknown. but i'm trying anyway. eve online is worth it. new eden
is worth it. you're all worth it. let's do this! update: it's official! lillik e
is on the ballot. let's bring our female friends to the awesome
world that is eve. w-space awaits them!

***reserved***
thanks for the kind words :) contributer to eve is easy:
some players have voiced concerns over the 40km scram range
scripted hictors being oppressive to solo/small gang pvp. do you
agree? how big of an issue is it? how would you fix it, if needed?
seriously hyde? useless csm member? i think if you take a step
back and consider that literally a third of csm x quit, boycotted
csm, got removed, or were implicated in some kind of scandal, it's
pretty insulting and petty to use me as an example of a useless
csm. why don't you spend 10 minutes thinking about how useful
all the "vets" of csm x were who literally were so bad they
disappeared or got kicked before using me as an example of
uselessness. some of them straight up went awol and left eve, but
somehow i'm the bad guy. when citadels were going to have
features that would ruin wormhole space i pushed (along with
corbexx) for their removal. when literally nobody on csm
understood how missile damage application worked i lobbied hard
to try to bring missile guidance comps and the associated rigor
catalyst nerfs to a reasonable point when the new probing system
was being put into place i pushed back again and again and again
to get every fix possible made that wormholers and explorers
were asking for when the camera was completely screwed i sat
with ccp and jayne for several hours to walk them through
community feedback on solo, fleet, and videomaking issues don't
even get me started on just straight up trying to be a positive
productive member while dealing with pretty much the most toxic
csm environment of all time that stupid bracket for your own ship
was part of my ui qol agenda... did i mention that i actively and
positively contributed to csm all friggin year? i don't believe in
calling people out by name, but there were legitimately veteran
players on csmx that didn't know how attributes affect skill point
gain. meanwhile they ranted just as loud about how injectors
should work. there were veterans that responded to maybe 10%
of the feedback posts in confluence, even on issues they in
theory knew about. when we had a branding/advertising exercise,
one well-loved csm flat out refused to participate on some
unimaginable grounds. but you know, i'm the problem, right?
totally didn't get carried by youtube channel...
hold up bois, getting popcorn "oh look, the cat is sitting in the
litter box and pooping over the side again" every time we go
through these "rough patches". in good humor, and slight
annoyance, boiglio
you're trash kid
you're all trash and the csm is a joke.i am not voting for any of the
streamers and instead just not voting for anyone at all.
does content creators also mean you will send some love towards
all the eve news writers out there?
csm is still a thing?
"i am noob solo pvper who hit f1 and scram with marauder or tank
bonused ship and make dank meme video/stream, now im
famous, now i am csm "i support rhiload in the csm wars
in fact, i would be interested in more information on what you
want specifically. what are things you want to change? what are
things you don't want to change? what possible reactions do you
expect from ccp regarding these things?
let's settle this the old fashion way.1v1 at sun between hyde and
rhiload.jita.
the salt is strong with this one...
if the csm could be more about game balance rather than another
notch in your ****** space-fame belts that'd be great-1 won't be
getting my vote
well, it's still quite a problem, for sure.
have you ever tried citra with salt?
give all 4 midslot bs a 5th mid.right?right???memes are love,
memes are life.also, let<U+FFFD>s not kid ourselves into thinking
that the csm is some kind of a "super tryhard serious
organization" i for one would welcome a candidate who could
bring some fresh air.i see no reason for "memes" to stop
someone from running for csm. do you seriously think he is going
to spam memes and play vuvuzelas during the meetings? (not
that it would be a bad thing).also, i dare say anyone who doubts
rhiload<U+FFFD>s actualy ingame skill is talking out of their
arse.i support rhiload in the csm wars
ayy lmao chance thinking he matters anywhere other than his
******** corp and youtube subs. although i recently became a
thera resident i don't think you represent my opinion nor the
opinions of anyone else other than sc0ut(lol). as for rhiload, i think
he still needs time to prove himself as a worthy csm candidate
and show that he's capable of being mature and cut the memes.
yeah i thought memes are cool once too.
isn't the commentating job mainly reserved for eve's 'notable'
personalities and not always indicative of a pure understanding of
the finer points of eve mechanics and balance? most of the
videos are just trash memes and poorly overreaching slam
attempts at americans. additionally, i find it easy to just bash the
ship and its balance design for lacking a "mid slot" pg or maybe a
bonus as you do in 90% of video we watch that isn't filled with the
aforementioned "trash memes". any new bean in horde or test
could figure out whats lacking in a ship pretty quickly but it takes
a person worthy of being on the csm to note the potential draw
backs to the complex web of ship balance by simply adding a mid
slot to the punisher or buffing medium autos. unfortunately, i do
not believe you have shown yourself capable (and as you
admitted) of understanding the big and small picture of balance
and mechanics. to add, you say you want to help lowsec and the
little guy, yet have given very little to address the issues you
would like to solve and that are at the core of your candidacy.
quite frankly, in my eight+ years of playing this game, i haven't
seen a candidate that i thought was more unqualified to be on the
csm than you, and i was friends with darius iii.this is one
candidate i will not be voting for this year.
we need fresh ideas, give the kid a chance.
so as someone who isn't part of one of the largest alliances out
there i should want, what...goonswarm, or test or pl representing
my interests?no thanks.i'd vote for rhiload just to get some fresh
perspective and fresh air on the csm.rhiload for csm!
when are you running omega?would rather the plebs seek the
true wisdom than divide themselves like this
why would you bash one of the few content creators this game
has?it<U+FFFD>s not like someone forces you to watch those
videos. if they aren<U+FFFD>t your cup of tea it<U+FFFD>s fine,
but given the popularity he has gained apparently an
overwhelming majority of the community likes them.and i see that
as a good thing. not all eve videos need to be 100 percent
tryhard.
another youtuber dank fresh meme
this isn't satire?
well that might be the first problem you have right there.the csm is
not solely or even primarily about game balance. that's merely
one of the many facets it deals with (and less so recently as ccp
has been using focus groups more). being an expert in the
minutiae of ship mechanics is only one potential strength for a
csm candidate. there are other valid strengths for a csm
candidate and other issues the community cares about.
when you cite the videos as part of your platform and experience,
it makes them fair game.
your entire post is hollow and empty. instead of **** talking rhiload
and wingspan why don't you talk substance? you're inciting a
flamewar and providing nothing constructive.
please rhiload, balance meme in the game
csm is suppose to stop ccp from putting out crappy game
breaking features. pl salt aside, you don't need to be an expert on
ship balancing to be on the csm. while admittedly rihloads not an
expert, he's still someone who's lived in lowsec and has
knowledge of the different regions. i'm pretty sure rihload knows
what could be bad for lowsec, and what may be good for lowsec.
he is truly a candidate with lowsec interest at heart.
haaa funny to see how hyde torpedoed his own reelection
campaign with this thread. even funnier is his argumentation that
rhiload wouldn't be able to provide serious feedback, i mean you
have to actually attend meetings to give feedback wouldn't you
agree? (csm attendance sheet)#teamjin'taan
you know suitonia is in cfc right? non-bloc??? what are you
smoking hyde?
uh look at the sov map fam cfc is kill
does your sov map not have delve on it?
jesus... we almost made it a year without drama from the csm..
theres a right and a wrong way to do things when representing
the csm. i think we can all agree this is not the right way.
instead of blindly going for the "memes 4 csm" circlejerk please
try to understand what hyde wrote before saying it's
unsubstantiated.
got my vote
stereotyping much?
don't act like people would have voted for you without your
videos. you're now not the only one with a youtube channel
running for csm. wingspan was a ****** to want to give jfs an agro
timer, but you were trying to get cargo buffs for battleships. you're
irrelevant.
>tfw people aren't just voting capri + suitonia + rhiload and
instead are wholly focused on their personal favourites because
what is stv?
great. now i know who to cast my 4 votes for. chance and rhiledit:
also xenuria
i support the dawa on hyde. remove remove
lmao, the pl circlejerk is soooo salty!rhiload you have my vote cuz
you are so good @ triggering this salty dudes!srry mr hyde, i
tought you were a good dude (game-related, ofc), probably being
so long in contact with pl's dudes made you salty bittervet.the
recent usa prooved that we, the plebs, are tired of you cool dudes
who are part of the establishment. we want dunk memes!
f*ck it. xenuria gets my #1 vote this year.
will you push for jfs to get a weapons timer upon jumping to a
cyno?
i read through his post multiple times and their is very little that
could even vaguely be considered constructive or useful.a. he
thinks suitonia is a better smallgang/solo pvper candidate without
actually providing any evidence or arguments for itb. attacks his
knowledge and experience of small gang/solo pvp because he
doesn't like rhiload's content format. i.e he doesn't actually say
why rhiload isn't experience or what even experience can be
based upon. other than style the hyde's and rhiload's videos really
aren't that different. he doesn't once describe what qualifies a
player as experienced at game balance. c. attacks wingspan for
being a useless csm member without actually describing what a
useful csm member is. "propel him above his station." - hyde.
says everything you need to know about hyde. he's an egotistical
tryhard who should step off his high horse instead of talking ****
about others.
mr. hyde i had some respect for your efforts as csm and your
vids....but now after i read your post, i must say:this is some
serious bullshit! your're affront people, you don't know...maybe
"chance" a bit, but surely not rhiload. if you are rly care for the
game, you should spend your time with supporting people, where
do you think could fit as future csm.but complaining about ppl you
dont even know. and trying to stop their efforts...is some
subhuman ****. this sounds not like a guy who had some progess
this year as csm, to make the game "better". this sounds like a
bitter-vet and cryhard! poor mrs. hyde! o7btw. i know rhiload and
believe, that he's able to do good stuff as csm.
ok, i was still making up my mind but this has definitely tipped it
for me. voting for rhiload.
and you expected thanks?you dumb choob.
so far only one action has been necessary here, and i'd like to
keep our activities in here to an absolute
minimum.disagreements, arguments and everything is fine and
welcome, this is a forum after all. but please do so in a
meaningful manner without making a mess of things. ~buldath
rhiload alive in serbija hyde we war you
i disagree with mr hyde.streaming and public exposure of pvp and
tournaments is a growing aspect of eve online, one which i think
needs more attention. so in that regard as well as having an
informed opinion about small-gang balance, i think rhiload has a
lot to offer as a csm member.
tbh you were more of a yoloswag csm poster boy than anything
else. and you were carried by your youtube subs. saying that
hyde was carried was and is ridiculous seeing has his sub count
was by far lower than yours. did people vote for him because he
made videos? probably. but i think most people voted for him
because his videos showed he had a firm grasp on how eve
mechanics worked. same reason why somebody would vote for
big miker. also saying you were a positive member while posting
this salty of a post kind of make that hard to believe. and also why
not vote for suitonia and rhiload? your allowed multiple votes for
that reason. suitonia seems to have a better understanding of the
mechanics. rhiload seems to have a decent, more than me at
least, understand of mechanics, have both would be a positive in
my books.#deletetheweak
tl;dr. most unqualified member of the current csm accuses others
of being unqualified. salt ensues. noobman and rhiload for csm
what...? when hyde is posting crap that has no evidence or
serious arguments in it that slanders chance then i think chance
has every right to defend himself. i'd be livid if hyde posted that
load of garbage about me without actually providing some form of
substantiated argument.
i don't get the "vote for suitonia, because only 10 ppl can get in"
argument.i can just vote for suitonia and rhiload.that's rather silly
of mr hyde.
believe it or not all suitonia does/has been doing lately is solo and
before he joined goons a lot of small gangs in querios. he also
has no life so i'm at least sure he's competent.not even close. he
criticises him because he hasn't shown seriousness once. it's all
memes and memes. that's like saying wingspan's "pvp" vids are
the same as chessur's :thinking: i haven't been around for csm x
to know but to be honest we don't need an argument to prove that
chance has no place on the csm. i am actually not advocating
hyde because of his occasional arrogance(and to keep the
narrative going tbh) nor rhiload because of childish behaviour.
what i'm trying to say is that hyde actually has a point and memes
on csm should never be a thing.oh yeah and rhiload puts in 'voice
for content creators' in his campaign. how does this make sense?
i just came here to say that you are all gay pwnedalso wingspan
ur **** lmao
well this has turned entertaining.first lol is hyde attacking people
because of game balance, seriously hyde, ccp can't balance ****
and it's their game!second lol hyde thinking csm is relevant in
anyway shape or form.third lol all the salt from pl defending hyde
being a ****trololololololo
hr.hyde you have let me down, you really just posted all that and
provide no evidence. its all subjective and how would you know
who is going to be a good csm member? this post certainly is
making me lean to rhiload and make me look at his platform more
seriously. lastly, csm seat for non-bloc members? coming from
the mr.hyde with the pandemic legion module? maybe you say
that seriously but i'm not sure if i can looking at your affiliations (or
past affiliations).
actually hyde has been afk and has literally nothing to do with pl
other than use the ticker to trigger people.
tbh i'm just gonna vote for capri and hope for the best.
that doesn't change the fact that hyde didn't provide an argument
for why suitonia is better. rhiload has done a lot of small gang and
solo **** as well but somehow he isn't experienced at it? what do
you mean not even close? first of all. seriousness does not mean
experience. just because mr. hyde has a stick up his ass doesn't
mean he's experienced. hyde hasn't described what he means by
experience and says that rhiload's videos aren't a measure of his
experience because they aren't serious. even if they aren't a
measure of experience doesn't mean that rhiload doesn't have it.
rhiload wasn't all memes at the at so he has shown that he can
give serious input. if you think his input his bad then you should
provide arguments for it which hyde didn't do.it really isn't. i didn't
say that all pvp videos are the same but i think this point is mostly
off topic. lol what? you absolutely need an argument to prove that
chance has no place on the csm. he has provided a bunch of
good arguments for why he was actually useful and saying he's a
bad csm member because you don't like him, his content or his
corp says a lot more about you than it does him.rhiloads childish
behaviour? if you want to say his behaviour has been childish
then point out examples because meme videos aren't exactly
mature and serious but they don't mean he's exhibiting childish
behaviour. even if he was childish at some point doesn't mean he
can't be a good csm member.believe it or not but rhiload has
experience with content creating (who would have thought?) so i
don't see how you think that doesn't make sense. i think rhiload
could provide a more clear platform for what he thinks is
unbalanced/balanced and offer up some solutions so we can
actually judge for ourselves if he would be good at providing
criticism to ccp's planned balance and gameplay changes. as for
dedication, i think he's shown that he's very passionate about eve
so i don't believe he'll have a childish break and delete all of his
content and disappear for two weeks without a warning unlike
some csm member.
still pretty hard to accept those words considering (allegedly) past
affiliation. clearly has some use for the ticker, i don't care who he
is affiliated with, but its very clear they are affiliated with one of
the big blocs even in just name. like i said. maybe they are
serious about it, but with mere affiliation it can change things or at
least my opinion.
do you have anything else to say other than 'prove the obvious'
lmao.
chance has been running his mouth against hyde since the start
of hyde's csm career. seen here i'm pretty sure they both have
had a feud going on for a while now. chance was the one who ran
his mouth bringing it into the csm. so if you want to point fingers
on who started it first. there's your blame.#deletetheweak

bit rich of hyde to be criticizing others when he can't even be
bothered to attend meetings. he has only attended 10 of the 42
meetings (39 if you include holidays) according to:
mfw when you call out rhiload for being childish and then reply
with this.are you referring to chance's clearly sarcastic comment
about electing a youtuber?
i find that hyde's criticism of someone being useless is patently
laughable seeing as his attendance (or lack thereof) in the csm
was as abysmal as g dubya's during his time in office. hell, even
xenuria had better attendance than you. i'd rather have someone
that is actually there listening rather than having an impotent
empty seat.look, i generally like your videos, hyde, but it's a bit of
a stretch to say you have a better understanding of mechanics
and balancing when your streams are almost always using the
blingyiest of fits. that's like someone commenting on the
performance of a honda civic whom drives a ferrari 70% of the
time. also, sure chance isn't the best of players (he never
proclaimed to be as such) and he had a bad idea (jf aggro), i do
appreciate the issues and solutions that he brought forth. if
anything, i think there needs to be fewer bloc players that are
there to represent the interests of the entirety of eve rather than
being beholden to the special interests of their bloc.thanks for
solidifying my vote for rhiload. he should hire you as his campaign
manager for how many votes you managed to flip to his side by
this tantrum of a post.
so many idiots that don't understand just how important content
creators are for eve online. every csm should have at least one on
the team. there is no need for 100 bitter vets that don't know how
the game works (much less programming), but think they are cool
because they have a lot of sp.people with many many years of
playing eve have done **** in the csm, there is no reason to shun
someone who has 4-5 years. hell, i know players who started in
the last 12 months that know the game better than many bigshot
vets.
do you actually expect me to waste my time proving that memes
aren't serious? i'm sad i can't directly call people r*etards on this
forum.
i never said that memes are serious, and your replies aren't
getting anyless childish.
the solo/small gang crowd are obnoxious. the appeal of that
gameplay was that it was hard and took skill since the game was
not balanced with hat in mind.pushing the game down a path of
solo/small gang balance will only appeal to a vast minority.
completely agree, though the same can be said about most
playstyles individually.pushing any path doesn't really help unless
it's inclusive of all playstyles. eve needs more players, logging in
more often, performing a blend of gameplay types that they all
enjoy and that interact with each other, whether voluntarily or
not.it's a big universe, let's fill it.30,000 logged in with 90% docked
doesn't help eve one bit.
in this quote are the 2 reasons why i would never run for csm. i
really cba any longer to respond to stupid people.
+1my alliance lives 2 jumps away from rhiload's hangout in low
sec. often see him out solo roaming the area, he is always a good
sport and actually talks to you in local after a fight or in between.i
think your videos, are hilarious and you should keep do
wow. i had a lot of respect for hyde. even voted for him. i don't
really like sutonia or rhiload as candidates (rhiloads vids are
f*cking hilarious all the same), but trying to sway others to not
vote for somebody else is just sad. especially from someone
currently in the csm. leaves a bad taste in my mouth.if i still
played eve (other than just skilling) i'd be well pissed off.
rhiload gets my vote just because of this.
outside of all the comments around mrhyde etc.rhiload, your
statement is weak man, there is no depth or substance that even
interests a vote. your statement that working with sui would be
good worries me because with weak views and a strong
experience that sui has means 2 csm seats will be taken up when
1 seat would be adequate.i think you should really focus on what
you are going to bring and how its going to affect the player base -
be specific about an area of specialism because sorry man,
youtube and commentator credentials =/= capability
can we vote for both of them so they have to spend time together?
it takes practice, lots and lots of practice.mmike azariah ----
<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>
i'm pretty s*** at the game, won't lie, but i feel that rhiload knows
what he's doing.i think that following the rule that "all good jokes
contain truth in them", he probably knows whats up with major
balancing issues as such. i personally don't have much
experience in pvp since i'm awful at the game, but it seems that
there are some recurring themes that i hear in his videos that
resonate in the eve subreddit, like "svipuls are cancer" or
"balanced legion" or whatever. i also see his cynical approach to
ship balancing as perhaps a correct one, given that he doesn't
filter what he says in any obvious way (again, i'm bad, i can't
reference his statements to my own experience)sure, he might not
appear to be 100% serious or extremely knowledgable, but i am
sure of one thing - this guy spends a lot of time doing pvp and has
enough sense of humor to hopefully not get caught up in his own
*******.for that, he's got my vote.

i'm capsuleer hyperflare and this is my favourite dramathread on
this forum.
not empty quoting
lol mr hyde hardly even showed up and he's calling out members
who did.i reckon we should strip old members if their title if they
have less than 50% attendance rate.useless prick
while rhiload may not be an expert on game mechanics, to argue
that because his videos are of a comedic nature he knows nothing
about the game (and to compare him to chance ravine no less) is
low, and simply not true. he's not only demonstrated a reasonable
ability to deride the strengths of weaknesses of ships and their
fits, but also a willingness to learn and improve his understanding
of the game (which is more that most of the csm can say). on top
of that he's proven himself to be an extremely capable small gang
and solo pilot. we don't need more experts in game mechanics
and major players is massive alliances, we need more of the little
guys; solo players, small gang pvpers, industrialists, high sec
pilots, and people that aren't from one of the game's three major
coalitions. for that reason he's got my vote!
edit: message to hydei dont know about all that **** you just said,
but i do know this:you are a baby back ***** that whines and cries
whenever you lose a fight, and completely lose your **** when
you get pwnd. chesseur too.rhiload does not. in fact, the grace
and/or good humor he shows in local when he loses makes him a
vote in my book, and even tho i have never voted for a csm yet, i
will vote against you specifically now.have a nice day.
hyde isn't running for csm xii, which is good since he did frag all
besides trying to get larger cargo space for bs. because, you
know, he hates not being able to hold enough cap boosters to
fight frigates in his vargur for less than 30 mins at a time and
there isn't anything else of note in this game that should be fixed
or improved.
it's interesting to see that what appears to be a legitimate
complaint, albeit without much substance, is dismissed as "salt"
and being part of eve's meta game. no wonder it took eight(?)
years to fix links and the community is "split" on the ecm issue.
i have no problem with someone like suitonia effectively
explaining deficiencies in ship balancing, on a csm that also might
include rhiload, explaining what features need improving to help
eve reach the broadest possible audience. or the both of them
arguing in front of ccp about how to make battleships great again.
the ultimate arbitrator in all such discussions is ccp, who pick and
choose from what the csm is saying, to inform their opinion of how
the broader player base will react to this or that game change or
new feature ccp is considering. some of the subtext that
candidates need to accurately understand and explain game
balance implies that ccp doesn't; and shifts in the meta or
economy... and the time game designers are allowed to spend on
a given feature in the midst of other priorities at ccp, also help
lead to balance problems.
i didn't even know who rhiload is, and i certainly dislike youtubers
(too old for that ****) but after mr hyde's comments and pl
brigading and shitting i'm definitely going to support him.
with this thread i submit to you the player base my intent to run for
csm 12.this would be my 3rd run for csm. i was a member of csm
8 and csm 10. i would like to say i had complete success on both
my terms on csm but i will begrudgingly admit that i also had faults
and failures. i would say this year is my chance to show that i am
still good at what i know and still have the ability to share it with
people on the csm and ccp and especially with you the players. i
do not believe i deserve it just because i have been a csm before
and run a coalition. i believe i should be elected for what i can
bring to the table.in game i run a moderately sized coalition called
guardians of the galaxy, gotg for short. we have also been
referenced in the past as dumpster co (which i personally prefer
but that is just me.) i am ceo of darkness alliance a former
member of stain wagon and n3 coalition. i am famous for
speaking my mind and not always being totally diplomatic, i am
also famous or infamous for being a backstabber. i gave up not
long ago trying to defend this because i came to the realisation
that if that is how people see me then they are welcome to their
opinions. i can be abrasive but to people in my coalition i am
known to be open to talking to if and when needed. on discord i
run a server called the blue donut. in this server is content
creators and fc<U+FFFD>s and some leaders from all round the
game i have spent a lot of the time in there to help connect both
current csmers and past csmers with a voice direct to leaders and
fcs in this game. during csm 10 i submitted 10s of pages of
information direct from these people straight to ccp i would intend
to do this again should i be reelected. should i not be elected i will
still aim to provide this same source of information and
communication with whomever the player base elects.what i
stand for and what i believe in:i am a strong advocate for 0.0 but
during my time i have tried nearly everything there is in eve
online. mostly to success and some to horrible failures. i am a
fierce advocate of new players entering the game and our closest
ally is pandemic horde the biggest new player alliance in the
game. a lot of people have asked why gotg or darkness does not
run an alpha or newbro program and the answer is in 2 parts. 1)
because we would be **** at it. 2) because we would prefer to
send people to an ally and or someone who knows what they are
doing than risk hurting them and running them from the game.my
platform.after 3 years i am going to say the same thing i did on
the last forum thread like this. i run on a platform of listening. i
want to work with ccp to point out possible conflict points but also
to provide answers and help towards bettering the game as a
whole. i do not run to better myself. i have been at the top and
bottom of this game i am using this time to give back to the player
base.me as a person:in my personal life i am married to a
beautiful wife and have recently become a father to a beautiful
baby boy. i have frequented multiple player meets and gotten to
know hundreds of players and families of players. i may be
considered by some to be an ******* in eve but when you get to
know me it's known i don<U+FFFD>t actually bite. i am more of a
hugger.this year is going to be a hard fought election i hope you
consider me for the post. thank you for reading.
blue donut #1 !
giant purple dildo #1 !loyal servent to mother amamake.
@eve_tetsel
congratulations. take care of your baby boy instead of playing a
video game about spaceships and circlejerking.
he should also do a gofundme campaign about this, being a father
is expensiveloyal servent to mother amamake. @eve_tetsel
i debated on making this post, as i'm not sure if it was worth my
time. but anyways, here goes.i wanted to clear up a couple of
points you bring up, and hand wave because they're telling about
you as a leader, and have weight on whether or not you'd be an
effective csm. this may come off as a personal attack, and i'll try to
steer clear of that, i think however it's important for people to hear
from the other side, as someone who's watched you closely in
your various leadership positions you've had over the years.first
you bring up being a backstabber, or being known as one. i don't
believe this to be true. what is true is that you're erratic. there is
little consistency in your behavior and it takes very little for
someone go to from friend to enemy. people see this as being a
backstabber, but i think the actual issue is that you have no
internal consistency in your actions, and simply react to whatever
situation is in front of you without much forethought.you bring up
being abrasive. this is true, but this is also true of almost
everyone. the issue is however that you don't apologize for your
abrasiveness when given the opportunity to do so when you're in
the wrong. running independent communication streams. you
have what at this point, a dozen, maybe more channels that
you're part of between skype, discord and others. this doesn't help
your erratic nature, and as a coalition leader you've become
increasingly isolated. these places are fine to have, but
segregating yourself in them and them being echo chambers
speaks poorly for your leadership capabilities. rl you is a nice
enough guy though the couple times we've met, and best wishes
to you and the family.
hurray for boss dude. +1
vic jefferson is the man for the job, lets make eve great again!
                                                                      1
interesting ideas and proposals, but i have a few honest
questions.what constituency, really, are you representing? what
kinds of players are you looking to speak on behalf of, and how do
you intend to gather feedback from them to go on to present to
ccp? i feel like you're trying to appeal to a broad base of players
and putting up your ideas and credentials without actually telling
us how you intend to act as a representative.are you aware that
the csm is not entirely an 'ideas machine' with csm people able to
get an agenda filled? are you prepared to accept that it's going to
be a lot of 'this is our idea, what do you think' and having to build
working relationships with specific devs and teams? you could
table all of these ideas and proposals on day 1, what are you
aiming to do with the rest of the year?i like your way of thinking
and your ideas for the game, but having spoken a lot to some
former and current csm members about what the job actually
entails, i fear you might not be doing the 'job' (vague as a csm's
role can be these days) justice and how you'll respond to the
needs of those who vote for you. if you were running for a dev
job, yeah i'd swing you a vote, but you're running for basically a
consultancy job.i want to know how you actually intend to canvass
feedback from us on specific areas of the game over the course
of an entire year."face the enemy as a solid wall for faith is your
armor and through it, the enemy will find no breach wrap your
arms around the enemy for faith is your fire and with it, burn away
his evil"

steve should be a shoo-in but there are no certainties until after
the votes are counted. put him on your top 3 or do like i will and
#1him on all your accounts.
<3
gets my vote, guy with strong vision and even better track history
of delivery+1
ima type out a better spag bol recipe for you.
what would you say went right this year, and what went wrong?
similar to thejudge, how do you intend to improve representation
and communication better if you're re-elected? do you feel it
doesn't need improvement?"face the enemy as a solid wall for
faith is your armor and through it, the enemy will find no breach
wrap your arms around the enemy for faith is your fire and with it,
burn away his evil"
steve will always get my vote! +1 for steve!
representation is a hard thing to improve. i mean, i try to represent
the people who contact me, and i try to keep up to date with the
issues people talk about, in places i see it (the forums, reddit,
slack, twitter and so on) but if you're meaning people who don't
contact me, that's not something i can really do?communication,
other than through the aforementioned places, well, again, it's
hard to improve? i could write more blog posts, but other than
that, there's not a lot i can do? i like to think i'm easily
approachable, and i do take things to ccp as i see them. in
general, this year has been a lot better than 10 was. part of that
has been having two coordinators, rather than just one, and ccp
moving more communications to hipchat has helped a lot. 10 got
hit by the migration phase, and communication suffered because
of that.as for things which went wrong, there was very little with
the process itself. there's some changes i'd have liked to have
seen earlier in the process, so more shaping input could have
been given, but we're talking perfect world there.
i don't know steve, not sure i want to..however that said.fuzzworks
saves me years of indy work life, and helps pass endless hours at
work.and those market charts are amazing.you sir have my
vote.that is allcarry on.
can confirm he is super nice irl too.
1) figuring out what the best form of mass advertising is for the
current perspective new gamer base. retaining is a mixed bag of
continuing to improve the npe for getting started, and making sure
they are aware of the tools to find player run organizations. 2)
providing payouts early on that allow such activities. currently due
to the imbalance of faucets and sinks early access to income is
horribly handicapped for starting players short of finding someone
else to help boost them up. 3) i don't necessarily think that
everyone should be forced into null/low/wh as there are people
(who i've met) who literally just aren't comparable with these
forms of gameplay short of extreme handholding. it might be worth
exploring how to convey the possibilities of this space more to
newer players. 4) giving them something different than the every
day grind. right now the pve is repetitive as **** and is purely done
for isk making purposes. there will always be some people who
literally want nothing more than to plex up for a big fight and then
do nothing. but there are people who want to log in and just have
different things to do than the same thing they've been doing for
the better part of a decade.
appreciate the responses, thanks
anytime
+1 to any combination of the following:- "vince"- "the horse"- "for
csm"- "riding"
that was "borrowing without the intention of returning intact"
you list your strengths in the game knowledge and that you have
a lot of ideas, but similar to other posts i've made to candidates
are you aware the csm is not strictly an 'ideas machine'?what
would be the one thing you think you can do better then the last
csm to represent your voters if elected?how do you intend to
gather feedback and report to ccp?would you be willing/able to
take up 'extra work' in the vein of consistent reporting to the
community on yours/csm's activities, as allowed by the nda?"face
the enemy as a solid wall for faith is your armor and through it,
the enemy will find no breach wrap your arms around the enemy
for faith is your fire and with it, burn away his evil"

some good candidates this year. +1 this guy
kalbuir is an amazing individual. he keeps a low profile, but
anyone involved in ph can point to some service, some point of
contact, some way in which kalbuir has made that pilot's space-
life richer and more enjoyable. the work he does on our tech
services is outstanding, and his dedication to making the
experience of every player as full as possible is unparalleled. he is
the champion of the newbean, and has created numerous
systems within the ph framework specifically designed to
familiarize new players with the game in general, ph's part in the
game, and the roles each pilot can take upon themselves within
ph and beyond, providing both in- and out-of-game support
structures for all. i can not imagine anyone more devoted to
nurturing this game and its players, nor anyone better suited to
helping eve find its path for the future.kal, best of luck to you. i
may be but a simple hordeling, but you have my full and
unmitigated support.
noone could be better qualified to talk about npe than a guy like
kalbuir. horde is the 0.0 npe of this game.+1
kalb has been with ph since the beginning and basically setup
and ran the nbi (new player helpers) for the last year and half.top
dude.
kalbuir has brought technology and innovation to the npe of
pandemic horde since it's beginning. constantly attentive to the
needs of his new player corporation and development of tools to
bridge the gap between freshly registered players and older more
experience players looking to help a newbro. he is the man when
it comes to npe and will bring a wealth of fully applicable
knowledge to the csm. thousands of players have learned the
ropes of eve under the umbrella of his work and i wish him the
best of luck in his campaign.+1
i support this product and/or service due to reasons already listed
above.
everything kalbuir does in and out of game is for the newbeans in
horde. he is extremely dedicated and has put in countless hours
into helping the eve community grow. having him on the csm will
allow him to reach out and help new players everywhere.he is the
perfect candidate to help ccp with their continued npe overhaul.
nobody has any questions for me?
hello space capsuleers.my name is jtclone ares, i am the ceo of
strangers of the cosmos. i have been playing eve for a little over 3
years. i have had my fair share of risk vs reward. most people
know me to be a bit on the side of short and sweet. i get to the
point, then the details later. i spent 2 years in hs and now most of
my time in 0.0 industry, mining, and bit of pvp on the side.the
reason why i am running for csm 12 is i decided to see if i can
make some stuff happen between the community as well as the
developer's(ccp). i do have plans to put ideas across the table as
well as fixes to the game(ie. bugs). i do want to help create
content for player's who play eve.the things i would put forth are:-
skins - custom alliance logo or full ship skins - custom at skins -
citadel skins for those who just wanna show off - skins for the t3-
outpost's to become destructible- citadel deterioration over a long
period of time- easier way to make bug fixing easy for ccp to find
and fix- new addition of t2 battlecruiser - name them assault or
siege bc - naga, tornado, oracle, talos- t2 battleships - rokh,
abaddon, maelstrom, hyperion - new usage for using subcaps to
help put more dps against sub caps as well as capitalships-
mining platform array's - ideas' for having moon control to planet
control to a system wide control of moon goo.- installation of
player owned stargate and how they should work - sov re-work on
jump bridge's- possible introduction to a capsuleer faction ship
tree ranging from frigates up to capital ships - overpowered but
hard to find and get, or usage through npc missions available in
citadel's.- help increase the idea's of npc missions or corp
missions for lp that is available through citadel access. - having
lvl 5 missions available in 0.0, faction(navy, pirate or corp)- fix
ships that aren't being used much often anymore. - re-balance of
the dreads - ships that are least used(bring the least used ships
up to the main bigger ships) revamp them back up.- new support
capital ships which main usage is ewar - high ewar strength,
barely any dps, and heavy usage for support fighterssome of
these ideas have been brought up before hand but i do want to
help increase the stability as well as increase the player flow into
eve. i do like to tackle the big issues as well as listen to both the
smaller guy as well as the bigger guy. look for the problems and
see how many solutions can come up with in order to fix some of
the basic or complex issues when they arise. i do want to bring
these ideas up and get ccp going on increasing player ship
diversity as well as increasing the boundaries for the players.
these are just some of the ideas i have at this time.contact
info:eve mailtwitter: @jtclone

-reserved-
hello capsuleers of new eden!i am djavin novienta, member of eve
university, and i would like to announce my candidacy for csm
xii.myselfi first began my career as a capsuleer in 2011 and
quickly found a home in a small highsec corporation. eve was my
first foray into online gaming, and it has always occupied a
special place in my heart. after piloting for about two years, i took
a long break from my piloting career.i came back to eve
september 2016 and immediately joined eve university. the game
had changed a lot in the time i<U+FFFD>d been gone, and i felt a
little lost and in need of some help. i<U+FFFD>ve since gotten
back on track and now spend the majority of my time helping
other unistas begin successful careers in new eden.if you look up
my character info in-game, you<U+FFFD>ll see that i carry the
vanity title of <U+FFFD>cariest of bears<U+FFFD>. i received
this title at my own request and it is one that i wear with pride.
i<U+FFFD>m not a competitive person and i don<U+FFFD>t
particularly enjoy pvp. when i<U+FFFD>m in space you can find
me either mining, missioning, running incursions, or exploring.
however, most of my time is spent on various support roles within
eve university: teacher, reimbursement officer, orientation officer,
and wiki curator. i have taken on these many administrative tasks
for two reasons: first, to contribute the community in a way that
does not involve combat, and second, because i honestly love it!
i<U+FFFD>ve found that in eve, administration is my gameplay,
and i truly enjoy teaching classes, editing the uniwiki, and helping
manage our ship replacement program.my goalscontinued
expansion and refinement of the new player experience and other
tutorial contentwith the release of ascension, it has become even
more important to ensure that eve is accessible to new players. as
an orientation officer at eve university, i<U+FFFD>ve seen
firsthand the positive impact that the inception npe has had on
new players, but i think there is a significant amount of room to
improve even further.a few things things that can be
done:establish a list of essential knowledge for new players. this
list should answer the question: <U+FFFD>what should all
players in eve know, or know how to do, and where can they go
with it?<U+FFFD> any future tutorial content should be centered
around imparting knowledge from this list.make more information
readily available in-game. with the removal of the in-game
browser, most information about eve is no longer accessible in-
game, and requires opening a separate browser window.
additionally, now that player-run sites (such as the uniwiki or the
fuzzwork suite of tools) have become the primary source of
information about the game, there is greater cause for concern
that information found on such sites may not be accurate or up-to-
date. for example, i can say from experience that the wiki curators
are still scrambling to scrub all mentions of warfare links and off-
grid boosting from the uniwiki even three months post-ascension.
there is very little means of verifying information on external sites
other than going into the game and verifying it for yourself. some
ideas/options that can be implemented:- additional/expanded
tooltips- <U+FFFD>active help<U+FFFD> popups, perhaps
similar to those utilized by games such as final fantasy xiv. these
could appear upon first exposure to different game mechanics
such as agents, low- or nullsec, incursions, etc.- distinction
between base ship & module stats and bonuses or effects from
skillsa renewed focus on pve content, both reworking existing
content and adding new content.npc mining operations were a
welcome addition to the vast array of pve content that eve has to
offer. unfortunately, the majority of the pve content in-game has
existed in its current state since its original implementation. there
are many ways that this area of eve<U+FFFD>s available
activities can be improved, but here are a few specific ideas:-
implement opportunities for solo player participation in incursions.
options include reducing the strength of incursion rats to make
them challenging but soloable with proper preparation (perhaps
weakest in scout systems, strongest in headquarters), and
implementing solo combat sites as cosmic anomalies and/or
signatures.- increase the drop rate of faction tags and make data
center missions repeatable, and/or allow players to turn in tags to
any corporation for a standing increase (particularly useful for
trader characters with plenty of isk but few combat skills).- rework
cosmos missions and increase the stats of storyline modules to
match the difficulty and cost of producing them.- add security
missions with diverse win conditions. currently, security missions
are based entirely around combat, and the only thing needed to
complete them is a sufficient tank and passable dps. different win
conditions, such as providing reps for a besieged freighter, or
tackling a battleship so npc allies can destroy it, could encourage
mission runners to maintain a number of different ships and
reward them for training a diverse skillset.
reinforce the idea of new eden as a living world, and smoothly
integrate eve lore into everyday gameplay.while the lore of eve is
substantial and generally available to anyone interested in it, most
of that lore is completely separate from gameplay. in some
egregious cases, that lore is even directly contradicted in
gameplay (see: any reference to a <U+FFFD>console<U+FFFD>
while piloting a ship). on the large scale, more frequent in-game
events in the vein of crimson harvest and purity of the throne can
be used to signal changes in new eden. on the small scale, the
<U+FFFD>little touches<U+FFFD> can subtly reinforce the idea
amongst players that new eden is a living and dynamic universe.
some ideas to be implemented:- npc
<U+FFFD>bestiary<U+FFFD>: having a little more information
about who you<U+FFFD>re fighting can be both interesting and
provide a method of teaching new players about enemy
resistances and weapons. allow enemies to be more than just
enemy pilot #728 (unless you<U+FFFD>re fighting
sansha<U+FFFD>s nation, that is).- unlockable journal entries for
expeditions and complexes. epic arcs already have a whole
journal section devoted to recounting their lore. expeditions
already tell a story; adding that story to the journal would give
them more impact (and make players want to run them again to
follow them to completion!)contact meeve-mail or private
convo/u/musicmage4114 on
redditdjavin.novienta@gmail.com@musicmage4114 on twittereve
university mumble (our <U+FFFD>private<U+FFFD> server has
a public lounge linked to our student lounge - i<U+FFFD>d love to
talk to you!)eve university forumsmy user talk page on the uniwiki
i recently had a wonderful interview with matterall of talking in
stations. please do check it out here!
lore really needs to play a more active role in the game. it needs
to be reflected on more in the mechanics, and npcs need to be
more than simple ratting victims, both in high sec and null. a lot of
people seem to dismiss lore's importance in eve, but i feel like
immersion is a vital part of making this game... fun. not only that
but it's a lot easier for newer players to get into.you'll probably get
a vote from me simply because no one else is really pushing for
these things as much. instead of vague discussions of balancing
game mechanics, i think simple touches like these are what eve
really needs right now to become more appealing to a new player
base, which let's be honest, we need more of.
aram has proved me more than once that he is a man of his word.
but that's not why he has my vote, he has my vote because i truly
believe that his wisdom will lead us and ccp to new heights made
of exquisite taste in clothing and delicate apparels.
08/02 update: space bar gameplayi used to play phantasy star
online on dreamcast in 2001. i remember having a lot of fun and
good times in the players lobby. you were able to chat, compare
outfits, weapons and armors, play mini-games with dozens of
players in the same lobby. the dreamcast had a 200mhz cpu,
33kbit/s modem and 8mo graphic card. if i am elected csm, i will
suggest to ccp to add players lobbys named "space bar". you
could invite your friends and players in your space bar.the
features: music atmospherefor an extra 2.99$, you could play
your spotify / deezer / itunes playlists in your space bar.for an
extra 1.99$, you could buy sound atmosphere packs (saloon,
ghetto, a night in vietnam, etc..)mini-gamesfor an extra 1.99$,
you could add mini-games solo and multiplayer (poker, black jack,
...)space bar skinsfor an extra 2.99$, you could buy skins for your
space bar (saloon, ghetto, a night in vietnam, etc..)3d exotic
dancersfor an extra 2.99$, you could have 3d male/female exotic
dancers partying for your guestsstill working on this
well no circlejerk option in a 9.99$ vip csm room ?loyal servent to
mother amamake. @eve_tetsel
greetings,i'm goldsnake, badposter of r/eve and loser of expensive
ships. i will try to keep this short and sweet, you have many other,
more riveting csm applications to read.who am i:i started playing
eve in 2007 rolling trial accounts every few months flying a rifter
to delve to catch a glimpse of bob capital fleet. i never did. in 2009
i made "the teddybear" to scam an industry corp out of harvester
drones, which i never did. then in late 2014 i bought the pilot
"goldsnake" who has become my main for the last two and a half
years.what is my focus?null security space and larger scale
fighting, ship hulls battleships and larger.what do i want to
accomplish if elected:i plan to introduce a defender system for
sov warfare, where allies can declare support and assist with sov
wanding nodes to help even out the attacker advantage in the
game.i want to introduce logistics battleships, as we already have
the abaddon, hyperion, rokh, and maelstrom which multiple have
a local tank bonus that can easily be engineered to help with
remote repairs.reduce jump fatigue when using structure jump
bridges, this will buff sov holders and promote more isk used on
fueling these structures, while promoting your alliance to hold
sov.ensure the transition away from control towers goes smoothly
and we have a replacement for structure based jump bridges and
cyno beacons.introduce more events, both live and passive. we
remember the live incursion events, whose were great and got a
ton of activity and we should bring more live events like those
back. we should also get more passive events like "shadow of the
serpent" possibly cycling through them going to each pirate
faction in a rotation cycle. possibly even make a border tention
between pirate factions to generate lp for those factions.want to
contact me?i'll see messages herereddit on
goldsnakegiveawaysdiscord on goldsnake#3602twitter
@goldsnake_am0k
just a small note, which really should be made on all csm
candidacies such as this:the csm can propose stuff, yes. the
chance of getting ccp to work on something you proposed, unless
it's trivial, is close to zero. they have limited development
resources (like anywhere) and thus prioritize. if they're working in
an area anyway, that's when you can help shape it. but getting
something looked at, which isn't already on the roadmap, is few
and far between.
the absurdity of the csm council in a nutshell. stop being this
arrogant btw.don't listen this disillusioned man, godspeed
goldsnake.
drain the swamp they said ?loyal servent to mother amamake.
@eve_tetsel
erebus 'thechin' sundance,thank you very much for showing
support for this proposal.dmc
i would assume that ccp is a business and they do not want to
give you everything but, rather, make you tempted to pay and
play the better version.in that regard they give you a taste of
drones. but not all the flavours.m
slogan: no sov. no agenda. no promises. overall goal: to see the
growth of the eve community and the eve universe as a
whole.overall strategy: to engage with players from the far
corners of eve in order to promote meaningful and engaging
content for all aspects of the player community. summary:i hold
no sovereignty. i have no political agenda. i can make no
promises as to what will happen when i am on the csm. i want to
be there to represent the community of eve in all aspects of game
play. this is an amazing game with some amazing people and i
know we all want to see it grow and strengthen in the months and
years to come. i don't have a platform or a set of objectives that
must be fulfilled. i don't have any illusions as to my ability to force
ccp to do anything it hasn't decided to do.what i can offer, all any
candidate can really offer, is an open ear and a channel through
which ccp can hear you, know you, and trust you, the community.i
created a contact form \ survey to make it easy to submit
questions, concerns, or ideas. i would love to hear from you!
here's the google document: contact form
csm campaign interview with matterall on talking in stations.:
youtube link.message to the gamer:my name is justin. we've
probably never met, but that won't stop me from saying hello. :) i
began playing eve in december of 2007. from 2008 to december
2009, i derped around as a super bad noob before joining a
wonderful group of eutz guys that stayed up way too late and
taught me a lot. we began participating in the sov wars out in
provi bloc as a member of the now dead slyph alliance. after sylph
died my friends created an alternate group for mercenary work
and hi-sec war deccing contracts. we received several lucrative
contracts from both friends and enemies of our former alliance.
we also roamed through low sec and null looking for brawls and
occasionally ran hi-sec pve missions with new bros. we were part
of the initial wave of wormhole divers during their inception,
though i was unable to accomplish much as i began attending
college in the fall of 2009. i returned to eve full time in 2013 and
picked back up with some of my old friends from slyph, now part
of the kill it with fire alliance and operating out of c5-c5 space.i
joined prozc and got back into the swing of pvp roaming with our
allied corporations ekchuah and hardknocks. from 2013 to now i
have experiencing various aspects of eve's pvp and pve
environment, from blops drops to cap warfare to the m-o keepstar
battle. i have participated in npsi fleets with bombers bar and
specter fleet. i have gone on week long solo camping trips in the
depths of j-space. and i have learned to once again despise the
long grind of l4+ mission running. i have played the station trading
games, running the markets and looking for the low buys and hi
sells. i have also gone through hq and vanguard incursion fleets,
and seen the amazing fluidity of a well ordered and well
commanded fleet. i love eve and its many fascinating areas of
play. there are boundless ways we can improve upon and change
this game for the better, or for worse. i would like to represent the
interests of the community as it grows, and encourage changes
that will improve upon the growth and strength of the player base.
i am willing to listen to and hear what you have to say regarding
anything that is on your mind when it comes to eve. feel free to
message me any time in game or out of it. you can reach me at
claevyan1@gmail.com or message claevyan in game. you can
also fill out this awesome survey thing that google helped me
make! (trolls encouraged!)

your commitment to eve and the csm last year has been
exemplary. i shall be voting for you again. plus you have a giant
america flag hanging on your wall, so that's a major +10.
i fully endorse what is currently considered to be the high sec
ticket. when you vote for me down the ticket also vote for toxic
yaken and roedyn. this will help insure at least one high sec
candidate make it on the csm
any industry related questions or conserns?
scylus is clearly the person who can best push for changes that
would benefit the whole faction war community
hi lilik!it's good to see another w-space candidate.i will note that
i'm not sure you have a solid grip on the number of women
players in w-space, nor the ability to estimate the population over
time. and, ultimately, i don't think it matters. women, men,
unicorns -- who cares? as long as we have people who enjoy the
game, and contribute to new eden in some fashion, eve will be
fine. while getting more people into the game is key, choosing to
focus on women is too thin a platform, and will set you up to be
easily dismissed. surely, there are wormhole centric issues on
which to build a platform, yes? or to focus on specific aspects of
the game which can be intimidating, or confusing, to new players?
i wish you the best of luck!
lovely!i would make all csm woman only(good looking one if
possible)! you'll see then how the number of players will grow
esponentially!never understimate a woman and her power boiz
(specially on nerds)
anyone who has questions, fire away.
what do you think, is the current state of wormhole space
(overall), and, do you think that is good or not.what do you think
needs to happen to wormholes to improve the current state
(overall, not just high or low class, but overal). please restrict your
anwser to one item only, that you think will make the biggest
improvement.
dear jonn,it would be nice if you'd inform the public of your
attempts to remove keepstars from wormhole space, while trying
to keep it under wraps because you're afraid the groups who
have them will try to come after you. i mean, aside of your entire
campaign, it's not befitting a csm member that we should vote for
to push an agenda that is both hidden and aimed at crippling
large organisations like hk/lzhx/innerhell.i am well aware that
other csms do the same, but that doesn't excuse you to do it as
well.
now would be the time to complain about fake news and state
alternative facts, jonn.
let me be ahead of jonn then and post this:
jonn,i'm confused. based on the first post in this thread, it seems
you're interested in running for csm to represent those of us in
wormhole space. however, this information seems contrary to
your purpose.does your platform for csm include removing
keepstars from w-space? if so, what conversation(s) have you
had with w-space dwellers to help you create this decision?
thanks!
hi everyone, i'm white 0rchid and i'm happy to announce i will be
running for csm.who am i?i've played eve on and off since 2008.
in the latest 'on' period, i've been subbed for just over 2 years.a
brief timeline and run down of my experiences in eve: 2008: omen
incorporated (part of brutally clever alliance) - living in sovnull pre
aegis (fountain). these guys helped me get off my feet when i first
started and without them i'd most likely have quit soon after
subbing. 2009 - 2013: subbed on and off, mostly running
missions/ded sites. 2015: eve university - incursions, low class
(c1-c3) pvp, c5 wr cap escalations, station trading, small to
medium gang low/null pvp. they do a fantastic job at helping
new/returning players. i am still a mentor there for players who
show interest in pvp. i spent a while on the recruiting team. i also
spent some time with bomber's bar and now run some of their out
of game services. 2016/2017: waffles. solo/small gang to large
fleet pvp. logistics/jfs. we are a nomadic group who deploy where
the content is. i've recently been appointed a director. most of my
time spent playing eve is focused on pvp. in any one week the
situations i find myself in can range from solo t1 destroyer
roaming to 200+ fleet fights with caps on field (you can check this
on my zkill, i am a regular player and not afk by any means).i've
also written various third party webapps that make use of ccp's
apis (i'm a consultant/software developer in the real world and
enjoy a problem).why run for csm?feedback between players and
devs is critical to the game's successful evolution. i believe i am
the type of person who would do well in such a role.while i don't
think having a single agenda is ideal, one aspect i'd like to tackle
is lowsec, more so i feel it should have reward equal to its risk. at
the time of preparing this, each of the top 10 most active (pvp)
lowsec systems (24hr) have either higher or equal pvp activity to
their nullsec counterpart. taking into consideration there are 4
times as many null systems as there are low, that's a lot of activity
packed into a small area of space, which makes it dangerous. the
rewards for living there however, are not particularly
fantastic.there are several other issues that i believe also need
attention from ccp, if they are not already looking at them. session
change timers & jump clone irks, certain aspects of citadels
(courier contracts, broken tethers, set and forget mentality - space
is getting crowded), customer support for hacked accounts, to
name a few.due to my varied history and diverse experience in
game, i feel i would be able to contribute to almost any
discussions that arise and need input.tldr; i want to get things
done because i love this game and the people in it, i'm not in it for
the space fame.if you want to chat, feel free to hit me up
tweetfleet slack (@white0rchid)in game (white 0rchid) - it's a zero
not a letter :)twitter (@white0rchideve)thanks0rchid o7

*reserved because everyone else seems to be doing that*
we are happy to announce that white 0rchid is sniggwaffe
[waffles] official csm xii candidate. he is smart, open-minded and
ready to listen to anyone who has a good idea. his experience as
a hr officer and later director in sniggwaffe, one of the most active
corps in game will surely help him in his gods work as csm
representing the voice of the lowsec people who seems to be
forgotten by ccp.a vote for white 0rchid is a vote for making low
sec great again!
what are your attentions with my daughter (eve)
super excited you chose to run white!since i joined waffles a
couple months, white has been a constant aid and source of
knowledge when it comes to lowsec. he is always easy to reach
and happy to answer any questions. #mlsga
lel.check your station.edit: he's actually a chill, reasonable guy.
he's a dirty ewwuro, but he's a good man. what i actually enjoy
are candidates that are capable and willing to learn more about
eve. when you recognize that you don't know everything, you
spend less time chest beating and more time learning from others
and how to effectively solve problems or present new ideas.
coupled with the fact that he actually has solid knowledge and
experience in eve, i think he'd do a solid job to mega.
i am happy white 0rchid is running for csm. he is a good man with
enormous knowledge about lowsec and game in general. i know
he is going to do proper job in csm.
two lowsec candidates, one pirate and one from faction warfare?
is this real life? white 0rchid, what are some ways you think you
can connect the non-faction warfare lowsec players (pvpers and
pvers) with ccp? what do you feel the major obstacles are
towards (again, not faction warfare) lowsec and what is, memes
aside, the best way to "make lowsec great again"? meaning, what
has been overlooked by ccp that you feel needs another look or at
least brought to ccp's attention?
if you want an idea, you can peruse my thread.
+1 for white!#mlsga
you go white! we are with you mate.
good man +1
what do you like on top of your pancakes?
i think it's an issue and it's really hurt solo/small gang roaming in
nullsec. it's killed a lot of affordable kiting cruisers and pigeon
holed a lot of people into going 100mn ab or bust. my preferred
solution would be to introduce a new script for hics that has 40%
of the current range, and attach the scramming effect to that
script. focused warp disruption script - infipoint, stops capitals
from jumping, same range as current.focused warp scrambler
script - infipoint, scram effect + above. this would be a 15km
scram on t2 and a 15.75km scram for ts/concord hic scrams. for
reference this is better than heated true sansha scram on any
non-bonused hull. i also think that the value of a highslot
scrambler has been completely ignored with the balance of the
scram effect on hics. it essentially was an extra midslot on a lot of
hics that were running a scrambler anyway. i think this is good
enough for a hic to do mjfg defence without making it as
cancerous for gatecamping or anti-kiting as it is now.contributer to
eve is easy:

do you have any plans/idea's on the navy caracle, naga, and
rohk? personally curious on those. all three of them seem to be
overshadowed by similar counter parts and don't have a role to
fill.#deletetheweak
a vote for suitonia is a vote for eve!aside thatthis is the man for
csm xii, a top tier choice indeed if i've ever seen one.
you already have my vote based on the amount knowledge you
have shown in your videos.i am curious, however, on your
thoughts related to the lack of ns wormholes after the change a
couple of years ago. i am hoping more candidates will push to
increase content holes (wh groups like to do small gang ns roams
as well).
i am sorry but isnt your fame mostly from vids man?
flying a blinged out marauder in militia space against t1 destroyers
and cruisers mostly.
i very clearly recall chance's strong involvement on both these
points.
i've lost all respect for hyde as a result of his posts in this thread.
sad to see that happen as one of my favourite youtubers.but you
went full kanye man. never go full kanye.
probably the best way of putting it.
disregarding drama, rhiload, how do you plan on pushing for
better lowsec changes? you said you are running as a lowsec
csm, but apart from that you haven't said much else. what
concrete suggestions can you offer? what do you feel needs to
change for lowsec to become more populated outside of the fw
systems? you also said you are a csm for content creators, that
word phrase gets used a lot, are you refering to just video
creation? how do you plan on making that better for the
community? or did you mean content creation in general?
#deletetheweak
"i'm gonna let you finish, but suitonia has the dankest mechanics
knowledge of any of these fools." - mr. hyde
lol this hyde guy has never even won an at.rhiload on the other
hand has won 16 of them.git gud.
the pl salt was real eh bois? amirite? amirite? wew lad, wew lad
now i know who not to vote for.. cya hyde
who?
the pl propaganda parade is strong in this thread.while i do think
suitonia would be the stronger candidate, there is more than 1
spot thankfully, and as of right now i think both him and rhiload
will get my vote.i will not be voting based on the pl shills in here
trying to further their own agenda. yes i know suitonia is officially
null-bloc with the goons, but as he hops around and focuses on
small gang, i will trust him with my vote.wish there was more wh
choice...
ya man, the popcorn was a little too salty"oh look, the cat is
sitting in the litter box and pooping over the side again" every time
we go through these "rough patches". in good humor, and slight
annoyance, boiglio
as an equally useless youtuber for the spaceship massively
multiplayer online role playing game eve online, i feel compelled
to chime in with a hot take:just because you bumble around with
a face cam (optional), a microphone, video editing software, and
use the ever so complicated "upload file" function on youtube,
you're not necessarily the most ideal person to have on a 10
person council that talks about game balance, design, and the
other assorted topics ccp throw at the csm. you tend to need
more going for you than that. and yet you somehow couldn't
convince ccp that keepstars in wh space was a hilariously dumb
idea.:thinking:
whoever you are "mrhyde", go back to your abyss delusional
demon.
rhiload gets my vote for provoking this very entertaining fall from
grace.
that better be a different abyss then the one you sent me to in
whats his names thread.mmike azariah ----<U+FEFF>
<U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>
all of you are getting rused. hyde is just setting riload up for
success
rhiload, can you tell us what is happening in your side of
lowsec/nullsec (maybe even hisec)? any glaring stuff that needs
attention? can you site a common grievance of lowsec/nullsec
residents that you wanna tackle?whats your stand/ideas on npsi
fleets?@hyde csm attendancei've read a post down at r/eve
claiming that he still goes to school and the meeting times just
doesn't agree with rl. again, that's the claim... which doesn't
negate the fact of his attendance.

go back to your twitter page and quit that "m" thing.
hello all, now that the nuclear fallout has cleared, i will be
addressing people's concerns and questions in a video, hopefully
to be released within the next 2 weeks, hope to see you all there
:)
why do you feel lowsec needs a change?it's got the best pve (top
kek wow 6/10s and faction warfare, level 5) it's got all the top tier
pvp all the way from solo 1v1 frigates to 20vs.80 fights where the
80 is 15 logi and 65 sleipnirs :3most of it is populated.whereas
nullsec's barer than a desert in the middle of dry monsoon
season.convince me :)
"the gravest of mistakes are made with a serious face".i don't get
your issue here tbh. it's very easy to see past rhiload's jests for an
actual message he conveys. you may criticise, say, the depth of
his understanding of the issues he talks about, but you choose
not to. for the record, i'm nobody to make such claims, but this
thread has a number of examples of attacking his actual points
properly, and you did not contribute to that number.we're giving
an evaluation here. obviousness is not something you can appeal
to in this case.more on topic: i'm not someone who believes that
"csm candidacy platform" is a primary thing, and i don't think that
csm member's own ideas on changes really matter. however, it
would help if op told us a bit more on the matter of his plans for
csm in detail. as i understand it, ccp tend to discuss a variety of
topics with csm and apparently an external media can very well
become a topic of conversation.to me it's a bit difficult to see what
ccp options on that front are, what would you support or advise
against. what would you discuss with community members when
it comes to this topic, what sorts of opinions are to be collected?
just about everyone i talked to in my little group last night was
unaware of who rhiload was before hyde did this.someone do me
a favor and please pass this along to mr. hyde...
tfw muricans take more seriously the election for cms than their
president's election lmao. let's dig in in the matter: option 1 - mr
hyde found rhiload with his mom last night and got mad ~~option
2 - rhiload raped him in a 1vs1 in battleships and didn't write gf in
localoption 3 - it's all a cospiracy! mr hyde playing #mindgames
with all of us: think carefully what you would do if someone tells
you to not vote someone else... being salty etc.... wouldn't it let
rise some suspects in you? you would probably ending to vote for
that person on the election day!so basically mr hyde is a true
follower of rhiload!#mindgamespart2 ~ what would happen if
everybody, on the election day, think that everybody else will vote
for rhiload following the same reasons ... and decide to vote for
someone else? with the excuse: the others will vote for him
anyway ~~#mindgames boiz!!!!!!! p.s. never let muricans vote
again pls (pjsalt)
i don't know what the cms is, but i do know you're an idiot.
i'm all for giving some new blood a chance but you have never
really shown us a serious side and i will not support some random
youtube memer for csm. i also don't want to just judge you based
on your youtube without giving you a chance to show your serious
side. i think the best way to do this would be to start actually
talking about issues and solutions that you are passionate about
in the game. a csm member needs to be passionate and willing to
fight and debate to have their ideas considered by ccp (from what
i understand). what are you passionate about changing or fixing in
eve online?additionally i have a few more questions that focus on
lowsec since you say that is your main area of focus within the
campaign. how do you feel about the current state of lowsec pvp?
is there anything in terms of balance that sticks out at you as
being an issue? if so, how would you propose fixing the problem?
how do you feel about the state of t3ds after the latest balancing
that occurred in the last couple months. do you think it was
enough to bring them down a bit to balance the ship meta? what
is your opinion on how citadels are impacting lowsec groups? do
you feel they are creating more content, being spammed too
much, or are they causing any other issues from a lowsec
perspective?
fallout indeed...look forward to the video :)what are your thoughts
on jump fatigue? does it need to be re-worked for ships like black
ops, or jump bridges? or do you think it's working as intended?in
addition, are you satisfied with the implementation of the new
structures thus far or are there significant features you would like
to see changed or re-balanced?
i've heard words of approval about your campaign from most of
my small gang friends but your platform appears pretty weak/non-
existent. here are some questions: what do you identify as the
biggest hurdles getting in the way of content creation in eve?
there are many avenues of pvp in low-sec that can be as different
from each other as night and day, from faction warfare to fights
over moons to piracy to other objectiveless small gang/fleet pvp.
which of these do you specifically care the most about? what do
you think about the current state of pvp within your defined
interests? what do you identify as the currently biggest balancing
issues in the game, and how do you propose they get fixed?
can everyone just cut the chit chat a-hole self righteous bullcrap ?
first off, i don't like chance ravinne either, but i do respect his work
as a content creator and i respect his work for the csm.second,
mr. hyde, i respect you as a content creator and i think you've
done amazing things for this communituy but maybe you should
keep your mouth shut. i like trolling csm members just like
everyone else but there is a difference between calling people out
and poking them a little.you'll never be alone, you got gremlins.
rhiload has my vote because he makes me wee every time i
watch one of his videos, and because hyde doesn't want me to
vote for him.
i intend to speak for all players, for there is a good chance that am
playing, or have played, your game, your eve. maybe it is a little
vague and hand-wavy, you would be correct about that. i think i
have been pretty straight forward - i am largely agnostic to what
space you call home, what activities you call fun; whatever those
are, i aim to demonstrate only that i have a good understanding of
those things, what makes players tick, what makes the game
interesting to them, and why they log in. therefore, i would be able
to provide a good sounding board as to the merits and hazards of
a particular change, having both the experience and the
knowledge on a broad range of topics within eve. yes. i have no
agenda - i accept that the csm exists to as a feedback
mechanism. i have no issues working with many people in a
professional context - everyone is on the same team, we all aim
to make new eden better. whatever the topic, whatever the
issues, i am signing up to be useful to ccp, not to make ccp useful
to my alliance or play style specifically. everyone has gaps in their
knowledge, but hopefully i have convinced some readers that,
although i certainly have some knowledge gaps, if ccp should ask
for feedback, i am able to evaluate and think critically about what
the proposed changes would impact. it comes down to, do you
trust me to have good enough insight into the game itself that you
would want me to have a special spot in providing the first wave
of feedback?first, i play this game, as in actually logged in, in
excess of 5 hours a day. during that time i am in contact with
players from all sorts of play styles. i am a regular poster on the
eve-o forums, but these have rapidly fallen out of favor with the
player base for various reasons, which has left the collective
feedback rather scattered across the internet. i would be game to
start a blog, or open another avenue for more regular
communication if that is what players want. it should be obvious i
am not shy about writing lots, and i enjoy interacting and
discussing all aspects of this fine game. what avenue do you
think is best?
i'm primarily a hs player, i've used the wardec mechanic for four
years, i am both biased and well versed of the mechanic and how
it works. not as much as some other, like lord raz, vimsy and
others, but enough to make educated opinions on the matter. i
also dabble in small gang, and solo, on this character and my
alts. stifle what content? they do not stifle content. they stop the
content of pve'ers. not content in general. and to be perfectly
honest. not everybody wants what you describe. most highsec
pve alliance, and i mean true hs pve alliance, not a pve corp
inside a lowsec alliance, want to be left alone. most pve'ers are
pve'ers and do not like pvp interaction. so what you get is two
conflicting systems. one which wants to fight and win, and other
which wants to be ignored. this interaction obviously doesn't mix
well. this is for a random dec, primarily because the
wardecer/merc, take losses very very seriously. to the people
where if one ship is lost during a wardec, it generally means that
the other side has dealt a very healthy blow. a wardecers aim in a
dec is a perfect ratio in their favor. contracts with mercenaries are
different story, vairable by what the contact demands. also wars
against merc corps are winnable. you force them to stay docked.
you not only block them from killing you, you block them from
killing everyone else as well. if an alliance has 100 wars, and you
keep them docked in station, you suddenly make all that isk
invested into wars, wasted. wardecs do not have predefined
objectives. it is up to the parties involved to define their own
objectives. in a random dec, meant purely for killing, a
wardeccers object is simple. kill and dont be killed. by defining
them that simple outcome, you technically win. even if you lose a
few ships, you killed one of them. which hurts them a lot more
than most people understand. as i said above. if you plainly show
your fleet to the enemy and the enemy can see he will not win, he
will not fight. same goes for everywhere in space. blue balling is a
thing everywhere. as do fights in highsec, i've gotten in plenty of
fights, three i can link videos of, over pos'es. here,here,and here.
we both can agree that wardecs and highsec in general is stale
and needs refreshing. i know and like the idea of structure based
war in highsec. but i do not like the overall tone of your post
making it seem like the defending corps are completely
helpless.#deletetheweak

i have always been a big fan of vic and his saltiness. he has some
good ideas though, and i am sure that he will be passionate about
this game when working with the csm.
valkin mordirc, you have a lot of valid points in your post - i will try
to address each one.so let's talk. what pve people say they want,
what people in general say they want, and what they actually
want are not necessarily the same thing. generally you can be
more sure of what they say when there's good evidence they
have a broader and deeper amount of experiences and
knowledge going into their opinion. if pve is all they have ever
known, and in some cases it regrettably is, how much do i really
trust they like it, having tried none of the alternatives?in this
context - pve is often the only aspect of the game they actually
know and can say with confidence that they like. have they tried
jousting spaceships? certainly the success of groups like spectre
and other assorted npsi groups shows there is a large market for
trying to break into what is a very, at first, confusing and punishing
aspect of the game - pvp. when their first experience is just
outright being denied their game play with no substitute, they will
tend to have a terrible experience with it. i can say that a healthy
amount of players that i have talked to, myself included, started as
a missioner and gradually realized it was the worst part of the
game once they had proper exposure to the really fun parts. that's
where the problem is, the first experiences shouldn't be a denial
of what they currently consider fun, they should be engaging in
other ways. carrots, not sticks.as i detailed in a previous post,
they need to see something tangible other than making you dock,
to actually want to put effort in. you took their pve paradise of rats
and lp - what can they either take from you, or do to get that state
back? if the answer is neither to both, than you can expect non-
participation, which doesn't exactly inspire the player base.while
that is tactically and technically correct, it's not a victory condition
most people are either excited to work towards, nor is it really all
that engaging. while ccp hasn't nearly eradicated mechanics
which encourage these tactics, and neither have player groups
stopped using them as a crutch, i think we can all agree that is
not an optimal solution. there needs to be a penalty for not
participating in a war that you started.perhaps you are correct.
maybe. so here's the deal. most things in eve are an acquired
taste. someone else shows you an aspect of the game.
sometimes people do this though blogs or youtube videos, or
whatever, but usually its a friend or acquaintance that makes it
interesting enough to check out. maybe you and i both know a
decced corp is not helpless. yes, they could make you dock up
and deny you content. we may have a developed a taste and an
appreciation for this after probably many years. however, it is an
aquired taste. you can't expect everyone to like it the first time.
not without instruction. heck it could be years before the subtleties
of such a taste can even make themselves known to a palette
that has only known shallow games in today's fast-food pay to win
game design climate. a lot of people would probably like jousting
space ships if their first experience with it wasn't so negative,
where the best solution (as they see it) was non-participation.i'm
not against hi-sec antagonism. heck, i've done my fair share of it.
if you want a more interesting game, a game which encourages
participation, a game which more people will stick with to learn to
taste and savor those subtleties, a more apparent and exciting
goal or anti-goal is needed to make wardecs something that will
generate content more often, for a wider variety of players, and
provide a positive experience where their view of the game is
widened. go ahead and smash their fleets with t3cs and over-
comped logi, sure, they still have to physically win a fleet fight, but
at least give them an objective they could win - just as you always
retain the ability to deny them their pve paradise, it seems only
fair that they should be able to deny you, in some way, the ability
to keep decs up indefinitely. i do not like one size fit solutions.
phoebe's jump range changes did reign in a lot of the silliness
with the game, but it really did put a hamper on legitimate use of
capitals. in the same vein, i would hate for any change to wardecs
to affect legitimate merc activity just because the blue-doughnut of
blanket deccers are, at least in my appraisal, abusing the
mechanic. whatever the fix is, it must be not hamper the
legitimate use of wardecs.
i like vic.i joined his alliance on my very first safari. he gave me
money and good advice and i didn't steal from them because they
were so nice.he's a good guy, and very knowledgable.
unfortunately this niceness forced me to create another alt and
steal from someone else, but hey that's eve, right?
as someone who flies with jonatan on most fleets, i can vouch for
his knowledge of the game, his will to help our group and his
leadership in all combat situations. he is also the kind of guy that
will listen to your ideas and give you constructive criticism on
them. i think he'll be a great addition to the council.
yup. steve is always worth a votemmike azariah ----<U+FEFF>
<U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>
you have my megathron...... rrr.... i mean vote!
(zur deutschen version / german version)(<U+044E><U+043C>
<U+043E> / russian summary)eve_nt interview i am hereby
announcing my candidacy for csm xii.for the twelfth time ccp calls
for the election of the council of stellar management (csm),
representing all eve players. this is an important platform to
influence the development of eve and give feedback to ccp, as
well as providing ideas and wishes of the community, but also
critics. since i started playing eve nearly seven years ago, the
game went through several changes, some with a really big
impact like aegis sov or the phoebe jump changes. such changes
are never liked by everyone playing the game, but instead of just
complaining the existing issues should be actively addressed in a
constructive manner.who am i?ingame i am diplomat and alliance
director of a small nullsec alliance having its focus on industry
and pve. except of living in a wormhole, i have gathered a lot of
experience in all areas of eve so far, but my focus has always
been industry and trade. i developed my market quicklook
website (
hiermit k<U+FFFD>ndige ich meine kandidatur f<U+FFFD>r den
csm xii an.zum zw<U+FFFD>lften mal sind die spieler dazu
aufgerufen ihre vertreter in den council of stellar management
(csm) zu w<U+FFFD>hlen. dies ist eine der wichtigsten
m<U+FFFD>glichkeiten direkten einfluss auf die entwicklung von
eve zu nehmen und ccp gegen<U+FFFD>ber
vorschl<U+FFFD>ge, kritik und w<U+FFFD>nsche der
spielergemeinschaft zu vermitteln. ich selbst bin seit circa sieben
jahren aktiv dabei und habe bereits viele, teils grundlegende,
ver<U+FFFD>nderungen miterlebt. es liegt in der natur der sache,
dass diese neuerungen so gut wie nie ohne kritik und diskussion
der spieler aus kamen. ich m<U+FFFD>chte mich nun noch
aktiver einbringen um bestehende probleme anzugehen.wer bin
ich?ingame bin ich seit einiger zeit diplomat und allianz-direktor
einer kleinen nullsec-allianz, deren schwerpunkt auf industrie und
pve liegt. von wurmloch abgesehen habe ich bereits in allen
bereichen von eve meine erfahrungen gesammelt, meinen fokus
aber auf industrie und handel gelegt. aus meiner feder stammt
mein bekanntes market quicklook (
<U+043F><U+044E> !<U+044F> <U+043E><U+043B>
<U+044C><U+043D><U+043E> <U+043E><U+043B>
<U+043E><U+044E> <U+043A><U+043D> <U+043D>
<U+044B><U+043E><U+044B> <U+043B><U+043D><U+043E>
<U+043F><U+043B><U+043C><U+043D> <U+043E><U+043A>
<U+043E> - <U+043C> xii. <U+044B> <U+043C><U+043E>
<U+043F><U+043E><U+043E><U+043D> <U+043D><U+044C>
<U+043E> <U+043C><U+043E> <U+043F><U+044B>
<U+043E><U+043D><U+043E> <U+043A><U+043E><U+043C>
<U+043F><U+043D> <U+044C>.<U+043A><U+043A>
<U+043E> <U+043C> <U+043C><U+043E> <U+043F>
<U+044B><U+043E><U+043D><U+043E> <U+043A><U+043E>
<U+043C><U+043F><U+043D>:<U+FFFD> <U+043B>
<U+043D><U+044F> <U+043C><U+043D><U+043A>
<U+043D><U+FFFD> <U+043B><U+043D> <U+043A>
<U+043D><U+043E><U+043E> <U+043F><U+043F><U+043E>
<U+043E><U+043E> <U+043F> <U+043E> <U+043D>
<U+043E><U+043E>.<U+FFFD> <U+043D><U+043D>
<U+043E><U+043E><U+043A> <U+043B><U+043D>
<U+043B><U+043E><U+043A><U+043B> <U+044B>.
<U+043B> <U+043C> <U+043D><U+044F><U+044F>
<U+043C><U+044B> <U+043C><U+043E> <U+043A>
<U+043E><U+043C><U+043F><U+043D>, <U+043E> 6
<U+043C> <U+043E><U+043B><U+043E> <U+043C>
<U+043D><U+044F>; <U+044F> <U+043E><U+043D>
<U+044C> <U+043C> <U+043F><U+043D><U+043B>
<U+043D>. <U+043B> <U+044B> <U+043A><U+043E>
<U+043B><U+043E> <U+043B> <U+043E><U+043E>
<U+043C>, <U+043E> <U+044F> <U+044C> <U+043C>
<U+043D><U+044C><U+044E>. <U+043B><U+044F>
<U+044D><U+043E><U+043E> <U+043C> <U+043D>
<U+043E> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043E> <U+043E>
<U+043C><U+043D><U+043E> <U+044F><U+044C>
<U+044F>. - brianumcontact:via eve-mailemail, jabber:
brianum@brianum.deskype: brianum
link to my announcement video on youtube >>>>click<<<<
thank you so much for the support!it has always disappointed me
that eve has such amazing, well-written, deep lore, but almost
none of if makes it into the actual game. i've devoured the
chronicles and short stories, and the live events that do happen
are incredible.as you say, immersion plays a big role in making
eve, and really any other game, memorable and enjoyable. part
of what makes me love this game so much is those moments
when the immersion just clicks and you really feel that sense of
awe at something that you could never see in everyday life.
are you going to make liquid ozone a charge?
dancul is insanely good at picking apart game mechanics pretty
much naturally. he'd be a good fit to the csm.
i like your list.do you feel like it's in your personal priority order?
more questions:what change(s) in the last 2-3 years do you feel
have been unexpectedly bad for the game and you'd want to
change?what change(s) in the last 2-3 years do you feel didn't go
far enough and you'd want to advance?things like in-station ads i
think have been a great way to subtlely hint to new players that
there's a world outside lonetrek, and i'm wondering what else
you'd suggest to lead folks into the wider world.--vet
aram csm ! it's the best (y)
this suggests you think wspace currently is not that great. can
you give a more concrete description on what you think is lacking,
and what are your own thoughts on how to actually make it great
again!please be concrete!! we understand you'll want feedback
but we need to know that you can identify problems corrently on
your own as being on the csm, you will likely have to look at
issues under the nda and cannot ask for any community
feedback.
rapid blue wrote: i want to help make wh space great again! this
makes it sound like you want to build a wall and lie to us. what
was great in the past and is lacking now?
hello, my name is serg sinist.what i am?i am a simple capsuleer
in the wormhole. it came into play in 2012, 3 months later went to
live in the wh.my campaign:0. prohibit the use of citadel
doomsday to wormhole or balance keepstar. upd1. my bad, it's
already balanced. upd2. for keepstar: reduce the protective
characteristics of a decrease in its construction prices.1. balance
wh mechanic.enlarge spawn anomalies with a slight increase in
the possibility of the emergence of low-end k162 system. for
beginners, making 1-5 anomalyes have to wait long for the
new.choosing me csm12, newcomers to the c1-c3 can expect
more anomalies. more anomalies - more newcomers - more life
into wormholes.2. add a second static in c6.since c2 and c4
wormhole added a second static, then the logic necessary to add
such and c6. this will add to the diversity in search of goals as
there are concentrated most influential community.3. add the
game thing, which can increase the maximum weight of a
wormhole.many large groups may complain that they need to start
the attack fleet in several wh. since fatigue is even more difficult.
it is therefore necessary to make a special piece, based on things
from drifter bs and decloaked transmission relay.4. add the ability
to respawn in the "home" system in the citadel.if there is a citadel
with clone bay and kill you in the system where you live, why not
add the ability to install a second home system.this is particularly
critical for the inhabitants of wormholes, it is not always they have
enter back into the system through the k-space.(example: you
live in j1337 and you dead and regroup to jita, if you vote me then
you take choise: respoawn jita or j1337)4.1 add5. add the seventh
launcher slot for drake and a fix lags.6. j-kingdom!everyone
knows that ccp did wh with the aim of the movement through k-
space.but there began to live and make money, to fight for life in
the system.sometimes, after the growth of the corporation, all
may not be enough money for the t3 and they are in other
systems to create a farm with alt-accounts. but records show the
system name, constellation and even the region. wh is not a hole
but a system with the sun, with pos\the citadel and capsuleers
without local chat and constant input.here's an idea: create the
ability to move jump clones between the systems in your
constellation. this process can complicate the "search" links to
your other station.this can be done in the service of the citadel
using fuel without timer or with him. components - some things in
data / relic sites.this will help in the development of wh systems,
more rapid invocation of a new green anomalyes in the region. to
increase the influence of corporation or alliance will give impetus
to conquer all the systems of constellations.7. make fozziesov
great again!where are you in real life saw the change of flag is
accompanied by a small fishing probes in a particular area?to not
abused ccp fozzie, you just need to remove appearing out of
nowhere in the constellation of probes. or create a bpo and
submit it to the market that will hinder the speed capture
system.because it just makes the game boring, and there are a lot
of people.example: entosis in m-o that means - takes m-o
sovereignty not a constelation!actually my campaign is.you can
vote, but why? it bezsmyslenno, but maybe you'll find something
here for their program.thank you, now let's see what answer.
*grabbing popcorn*
you do realize you're not going to be a junior developer, right?
of course, this is just an idea.not everyone likes the balances that
make the power block.
if it's useless, then why do anything to it? surely that's a waste of
developer time?if it's not useless, then you've already lied once.
and this, people, is what it looks like when you're on acid and you
decide to have a go at the csm seat without any forethought or
competence.
oh, my bad keepstar dd are already balanced.then need balance
keepstar's protective characteristics with construction price.
so basically you wish to become part of the csm, and have a few
ideas - but it turns out you didn't inform yourself about the topics
you are talking about.that really is not the best way to gain trust
from the community..
woah 2nd page?td for csm.
as the second owner of winthorp the character (the original owner
no longer plays, as far as i know), i'd like to express concern
about the number of owners the character has had.i personally
know of at least four owners, including the present one; the reality
is that with so many owners over the years it is hard to be sure of
the identity of "winthorp," their history, and what they may stand
for.at any rate, the current winthorp probably has much less of a
history and breadth of experience than the character history
would hint at, which should dissuade anyone from selecting them
for csm.
have a listen to the poor that had to sell a char once and has
sellers remorse. i hope that you have now found skill extractors so
you can't have a whine about your next life decision.i am actually
amazed at how many people so far have failed to even read this
thread or are on the crystal pistol.
you realize that ccp has made mutli-boxing harder right? people
who use to isbox 100 mining barges, dont do that anymore. you
say the player base has gone down 20k, but do you take into
consideration these isbox miners/incursion runners? in 2011 over
by antem in genesis, the high sec system next door to antem had
a isboxer who would run 100 barges. 2 charons and an orca. i am
pretty sure that constituted for 100, if not more of the 20,000
"players" you talk about.now also the fighter change. i know i
stopped multiboxing supers and carriers. as well as many other
players. if you consider maybe, 100 players who stopped
multiboxing 2. you are talking 200 accounts/character slots that
are useless. did they unsub? is 200 a fair assessment? probably
not.so, in the years you have been playing. i am pretty positive
that 4000-6000 accounts got shut off because of isboxer. another
1000-3000 were banned.yes, i am going to throw numbers out
there. cause they are a lot more practical than "20,000 player
decline and suicide ganking is to blame!"
jump range was nerfed out of stupidity. they did it to keep from
power projecting across all of eve. however, the original
implementation of the range and timer nerf was so heavy handed
that it kept people from wanting to move any capitals. people
would rather self-destruct and collect insurance on
dreads/carriers, and they would rather sell their supercarriers or
titans than move them with the range and fatigue nerf bat. hell, i
know several people who just let their supers unsub because ccp
wouldnt move them and they couldn't sell them where they are
located. they still play and they just recently decided to resub them
with the new range changes. they should have left range the
same as it was pre-phoebe and just left us with the fatigue. doing
both was dumb.
claevyan is an awoxing dirty sob and i regret ever letting him get
his filthy hands on my corp wallet. i fully endorse his message of
lunacy.vote claevyan
may i chip in... not really industry related, but as trade empire with
several bulk supplyers, i really would like to replenish my orders
(like resupply existing orders). pls suggest that to our devs. it is
really annoying that you have to repay taxes to keep stock on
market if you want to top up on an order,.
"schr<U+FFFD>dinger's missile. i dig it." ~ makari aeron
that would actually be a huge quality of life improvement good
idea
pushing fir the little things initiative to come back. its been
successful in the past and i feel it is a great opportunity to get it
going again.
i suppose the big one is: what do you consider to be the most
important things in need of changing with regards to industry?
so this is a variable question based on what level of industry you
do. so lets break it up into little things for each level / things that fit
into the roadmap moving forward for ccpt1 products mineral
based / can help all. adding runs remaining as a visual indicator
on the bpc picture would be a huge benefit to everyone..
especially those of us with thousands of bpcst2/t3 productionso
start from the beginning for this one. so moon mining first. mining
arrays are an opportunity to break away from what can only be
considered.... mining arrays give an opportunity to make a
interface with reactions and moon mining that isn't frankly a
painful long process to deal with. simplified interface that is easy
to comprehend what is happening and if it is setup correctly.
additionally using the upwell access lists allow for tower tending
from select groups of people without giving them access to fuel
bays and etc but enough to actually have them do their work. this
isn't a little thing but this is something i work with often and is part
of the road map moving into this fall. t3 specifically wormholes
need some love. 100% of wormhole residents will say
contradicting ideas on how to do it ill add a simple one. asteroid
belts in wormholes. gets people into space as mining as
protection as response fleets, and as hunters. its simple and will
seriously help wormhole industry. so lets step over to pi getting
cpp to change pi as a system probably wont happen any time
soon. but making small changes like being able to interact and
launch materials to customs offices remotely would be a huge qol
bonus. though changing pi from start to finish wouldn't hurt in my
opinion... or add it to the mobile app for moving extractor heads
around. new esi api system may create options for this provided
the endpoints are there. advanced industrycontinued work with
api and new endpoints for pulling more information / making the
api pulls more readable to the general public. citadel endpoints
are key here growing these to allow for market data to be more
complete is a great tool.lastly reverse the decision by ccp and the
current csm to not release regional industry data. this is a huge
market forecasting tool and its going to mean issues down the
road. the argument of "its free intel" is easily countered with
"that's the cost of doing business." its not inconceivable that
concord gather info on this considering you do pay them for the
space....
scylus,since you are focused more on faction warfare gameplay
and we have two pirate lowsec candidates right now, i want to
focus asking some questions that involve just faction warfare you
already mentioned the citadel problem which i believe ccp
themselves stated they overlooked (i think i read that somewhere
in csm minutes?), so i won't go thereinstead i want to focus on the
more pve side of faction warfare, and a major isk sink that is the
lp store and lp payout do you feel right now that the lp store is in a
good place? are there any buffs or nerfs to the store itself that you
feel are needed?lastly, what is your position on a militia receiving
50% payout while in tier 1?
you get my vote, the only true csm
don't vote with what's in your pants...
exactly.
as a csm member, what changes do you feel you could make if
any to encourage more female eve players?
i don't vote at all!but some good advertisement is always
welcome!csm is useless anyway, and people on csm do their own
business! like normal politic, nothing different
right now, the best tool at my disposal is word-of-mouth. without
ccp's implicit/explicit consent, that's really all i have. not that w-o-
m is a bad thing; many grassroots campaigns began that way.
ultimately, this is ccp's baby. i'm just a nursemaid. if i do make the
cut, then i'll have ccp's ear to whisper sweet nothings in to. this is
really about marketing, and whether ccp feels changes to their
plan warrant the expense. sometimes, the best plan is none at all.
i think wormhole space isn't in a bad space, but i think its
definitely been neglected. overall i think the 1 item will do the
most to help wormhole space out is rebalancing combat sites so
that they have a despawn timer, which will allow for better isk.
upping the isk/reward
its definitely an idea that i've had thrown around with a lot of lower
level wormhole corps and the feeling is almost unanimous. it
takes groups like hard knocks, lazerhawks and inner hell and
moves them from incredibly difficult to evict, to near impossible to
evict.i feel like this isn't a balance thing we need, as keepstars are
designed to fight super capital fleets, and there's no counterplay
in wormhole space. explaining it this way.group a forms a
coalition to evict group b. group b is an established, capable wh
group, with 300 active characters, and approximately 100 capital
ships in their home hole ( for arguements sake, lets say 50
dreads, 30 faxes, and 20 carriers). in order to be able to come,
fight, and have a chance of winning, the attacking force should at
least have parity with the defending force (we're not taking things
like player skill and such into consideration, as this is already a
complicated enough example). so that means group a needs 100
capitals + a sub capital fleet to match b's capital assets alone.
given that a keepstar's doomsdays can kill multiple capitals or
effectively kill multiple caps quite quickly, we also need to
compensate for that. we'll say we need 50 more capitals to have a
reasonable shot of being successful.ok, so now that we've
determined that we need 150 capitals to consider pulling this off,
we'll need a subcap fleet for support. which will say 300 should be
sufficient (arbitrary number, but whatever).so with 150 capitals,
that means we would need to be able to jump through 50 capital
capable wormhole connections. given that group b is much more
likely based out a c5 (as c6 space is dead), we'll assume the
number of wormholes there to be 500 (there's more than that, but
rough math here).so given an even probably of rolling into it
(again, not completely true, but good enough for our example),
that means group a would have to roll something in the order of
25000 wormholes to get the capital fleet in. lets say group a has
24/7 activity, and can roll a wormhole nonstop in... 8 minutes
(generally speaking, if you're ragerolling, it can be done in about 3
minutes, but we'll give some leeway for things like rolling
fatigue).how long would it take to get a force into that wormhole?
about 140 days. that's 1/3rd of a year committed to this. there is
no group in eve that can handle this kind of slog, or would
consider even doing it.now that doesn't even take into account
the groups that are large in c4 space. what if they managed to
anchor a keepstar? with 0 capital assets able to get in... you're
looking at a tidi fest to end all tidi fests in wh space, which is
already notoriously light on server resources.how would i deal
with removing keepstars? i don't know. i'm not going to announce
something until i have a plan to deal with it. it's true that i feel that
it is an unbalanced and unfair mechanic (in my opinion almost as
bad as a 1-sided infini-gun from back in the day), and i won't lie
about that.how would we compensate the people who already
have keepstars up? again, i don't know.would fortizars be
sufficient as the best anchorable structure in j-space? i don't
know. i feel like there could be a fortizar+ that's only anchorable in
wh space that has some kind of toned down keepstar doomsday,
and i think that would be much more fair.so why would i suggest
something that i don't know the answer for? it's true that i don't like
keepstars in wh space, but i've held that opinion since day 1,
because i feel it's a very 1-sided advantage for the defender, and
essentially creates such a huge boon for the defensive side, that it
becomes near impossible for an attacker to win. and that's with 1
keepstar. a group such as hk which has 2 on the same grid, how
do you deal with that?so i'm open to suggestions about what to
do. but i don't know an appropriate path yet, so i didn't want to add
it to my campaign.

^ are you actually braindead?
by your own math the majority of the eviction difficulty isn't the
keepstar -- it's the corporation behind it. most people would have
a difficult time evicting hk/lzhx/inner hell before keepstars, now
they still have a difficult time.you don't rageroll c5s to seed that
many dreads into someone. put a scanner in their home and
seed them through their own chain while they're asleep.since c4
keepstars are so unkillable if you anchor one in your c4 before
voting opens (march 6th) i'll vote for you first on 16 accounts and
post proof:
you're invalidating your own point by using an argument that has
been the case in every single eviction and heavily relies on
participation from both sides. if we take all structures out of
consideration and look at the use of pos towers, you'd have the
exact same problem you're dealing with before you even reach
said structure. a group such as hk is entrenched enough that the
structure in itself isn't so much the problem. it could be a fortizar
and they still put up a similar defense.if you want to evict anyone,
that above quote is a requirement regardless of what structure
your opponent has to defend itself. if you can't bring the logistics
to defeat the defending armies, you're not going to evict them
even if they would live in small towers.
i'm not arguing that the majority of the difficulty of an eviction is
what's existing, i'm arguing that the keepstar pushes it from
incredibly difficult to near impossible. groups such as lazerhawks,
hk, and inner hell are already very well established groups, i'm not
arguing for an easy way of evicting them, i'm arguing for not
making it essentially impossible.regarding anchoring a keepstar,
even if i had the isk, which i clearly don't, i wouldn't. 6 vinatieri: i
respect that csm is a feedback group, but feedback should go
both ways, there's probably been plenty of ideas that ccp has
implemented based off of or inspired by player ideas. i bring ideas
to the table. i want to listen to ideas, and improve upon them.
finally, a csm candidate i can get behind.
white's a good man and i have faith that he will serve all of
lowsec's interests well.
good luck white, i hate lowsec but you have my vote for sure :)
(just be sure to send me free stuff ok?)
love me some low-sec representation, love me some waffleseasy
choice for a csm candidate.
i'd be happy with more nullsec > wh space wormholes, especially
for higher class wormholes like c4s and c5s. quantum flux
generators right now are pretty useless i've done a few
experiments with them myself and they are pretty weak. they
could probably use looking at.contributer to eve is easy:
the navy caracal is bad because hams/hmls need some help, and
it doesn't get a bonus to rlmls which are op. the naga and rokh
don't really fit the current metagame at the moment. with rlmls
getting balanced then maybe the naga will see some more action,
and the rokh will hopefully get better with bs sensor adjustments
and less pirate ship proliferation. contributer to eve is easy:
from what i have heard chance has done a good job in his term
on the csm, unlike hyde who has failed to attend on a number of
occasions, and so not sure why the insults against another csm
member are necessary in this case. hyde, your giving solo and
small gang pvpers a bad reputation.i won't be voting for rihload
anyway as i can't see what he is going to bring to the table. but
the personal insults just leave a bad taste and have probably
increased rihload's chances of being elected.
you are easily manipulated, kid
you know honestly it would be pretty hilarious if hyde and rhiload
did this to bolster votes for rhiload. specially since chance and
wingspan have gone full try-hard troll mode over on
reddit.#deletetheweak
can confirm! operation: jebaited success!
im here just for the fresh and dank memes
<U+25D5>_<U+25D5> <U+0F3D><U+10DA>(<U+0CA0>
<U+76CA><U+0CA0><U+10DA>)(<U+256F><U+FFFD>
<U+25A1><U+FFFD>)<U+256F><U+FE35> <U+253B>
<U+253B>( <U+FFFD>_<U+FFFD>) ( <U+FFFD>_<U+FFFD>)>
<U+FFFD><U+FFFD>-<U+FFFD> (<U+FFFD>
<U+FFFD>_<U+FFFD>)(<U+25D5><U+203F><U+25D5>)
hi erika!i've got a question for you. given the recent decision by
ccp to remove regional stats from the monthly economic report,
what overall effect (if any) do you see this as having on the
industrial market in new eden?dev blog by quant is here:
hey erika,i may not of known you that long but i could def see you
making a positive impact thus you have my support. you are
great logistics manager in our current situation and sure this
knowledge base you have accumalated will come in helpfulgood
luck,kakaarmy co-exec of diplomacy
thanks for your show of support.
the csm would benefit greatly if fawlty7 would join. i've followed
him since 2011/2012 ever since joined the cfc. he's an excellent
and skilled fc, a great leader, lots of fun and trolls and he makes
people happy. i endorse fawlty7 for the csm xii. you'll have a vote
from each of my accounts, mate. o7.
i like that you didn't purely focus on the pvp aspect of lowsec life.
what are some things you believe can be improved upon for the
overall health of the lowsec ecosystem?how would you go about
communicating issues from all lowsec residents (fw, pirate, and
strictly pve) to ccp?what potential changes that were announced
do you feel area gamebreaking to lowsec but not any other
space, if anything at all (not counting citadels in fw space)?you
mentioned increasing lp payout for faction militias for killing an
opposing faction's player. are there any other lp buffs that you
would be behind? how do you feel about a faction at tier 1
receiving 50% of their normal payout as it currently stands?
one of the best members of the previous csm in terms of
productivity and contribution, so will definitely be top pick for me.
glad you are standing again this year.
hi, i am xenuria. i was in pl once, it was ok. what experience do
you have interacting with people in an in-person setting?
ive known jt for along time great guy he has my support and vote
for csm.
***if you send me 1 million isk, i'll return 10x more right back at
you.***
i appreciate the fact you want to improve wh space, but i am
curious how much time you have actually lived in one. from your
post it sound like you are a ns guy who is just interested in
wormholes.i echo the previous posters that i would like to hear
more of your ideas with details.
i tried to read your post, but the grammar feels like something
from google translate.
one of the reasons many groups live in wormholespace, is that
mass limits forces the small(er) fleet sizes.how do you think the
ability to increase fleet size will improve wormhole space?

50\50.on the one hand complicate the closing holes \ crit in order
to something: rolling to search fleets, secure system for make
money, mining etc.on the other hand it will facilitate input on big
fights, capital carriage (also balance the pilots, which cover the
hole way to capital ship + 50000 mwd: jump without use mwd and
jump back with mwd in during jump animation).
i thought about all the ways i could explain how this would benefit
already large pvp corps that print money in high class wh space
(now c4s with a c5 or c6 static), but i don't think its worth it.
expanding the mass on a wormhole / jump cloning into cits -
these are ideas that would turn wormhole space more into k-
space. i'm all for making more money in wormhole space, if
there's more people that want to bear because they can make the
cost of their ship back pretty quick - that's what would get
wormhole space hopping again.the ideas you posted are not
good. you also mention nothing about wormhole dynamics (bear,
indy, pvp) - i could edit: stalk (not troll) your killboard and corp
history, but i feel if you want to be taken seriously maybe say
something about what you do in wormholes and about the various
play styles. perhaps also mention how you perceive the health of
wormhole space. too much / little bearing? not enough targets?
too many large corps / not enough? good on you for putting
yourself out there. you won't get my vote this year; but good luck
all the same.
corp bio is in russian, if he's bi-lingual then props to him. there's a
fairly large russian playerbase in wormhole space and they
deserve to be heard. maybe not by this guy though.
thanks noxisia arkana.this topic just kidding and reated just like
that. i know about csm: this member is a powerful, know game
mechanic and see what need to improve game. also known for a
large number of people and may irl fly to ccp base.another
answers:1. for mass i think create player things what may to
expand stability mass for some operations.2. too much / little
bearing?too much and too much safety in hi level statics. because
many 5 system are either this is someone's farm or desert
system, and that small amount is the main or subsidiary of the
corporation or alliance.3. not enough targets?true pvp need rolling
many many system for find targets.4. too many large corps / not
enough? no. all good here.
i think your a bit too early for april fools, please go stand in the
corner and think about what you did.
add new ideas: 6. j-kingdom!everyone knows that ssr did wh with
the aim of the movement through k-space.but there began to live
and make money, to fight for life in the system.sometimes, after
the growth of the corporation, all may not be enough money for
the t3 and they are in other systems to create a farm with alt-
accounts. but records show the system name, constellation and
even the region. wh is not a hole but a system with the sun, with
pos\the citadel and capsuleers without local chat and constant
input.here's an idea: create the ability to move jump clones
between the systems in your constellation. this process can
complicate the "search" links to your other station.this can be
done in the service of the citadel using fuel without timer or with
him. components - some things in data / relic sites.this will help in
the development of wh systems, more rapid invocation of a new
green anomalyes in the region. to increase the influence of
corporation or alliance will give impetus to conquer all the
systems of constellations.7. make fozziesov great again!where
are you in real life saw the change of flag is accompanied by a
small fishing probes in a particular area?to not abused ccp fozzie,
you just need to remove appearing out of nowhere in the
constellation of probes. or create a bpo and submit it to the
market that will hinder the speed capture system.because it just
makes the game boring, and there are a lot of people.example:
entosis in m-o that means - takes m-o sovereignty not a
constelation!
i know this, and it's unfortunate that i know many things i would
like to see changed for the better i may not even be able to
introduce if elected.
i think t1 heavies should be available. there's always the argument
of ccp tempting players to sub but what many forget is that there
are a whole lot of other things that are tempting. no serious alpha
player who can grind for plex will stay in alpha status. their
contribution to ccp would be in the form of plex. lock out alphas
on utility drones, fine but at least provide the t1 heavies for some
ratting potential, thus isk. it's t1 lol.
i don't understand what so urgently needs fixing with moon
mining, and i'm really wary of what solution ccp would bring. like
when they "fixed" t2 production which totally crashed that market
while making the ui only somewhat less of a clickfest than it used
to be (much better-looking, though). same thing with when
exploration was "fixed", which over a few months completely
killed w-space exploration sites.let's face it: if individual players
are able to farm a resource to the ground, they will. because they
can't count, because they can't do opportunity costs, and
because even when they can count or do opportunity cost their
reasoning is they'll take a part of a smaller pie rather than no part
of a bigger one.the one thing the current system for moon mining
has is capped output on the rarer goos. even though most moons
aren't profitable because of overproduction, at least there are
some actual money moons, which people will organize into
alliances to fight over and hold. or which people will take the
trouble to recon and try to ninja, hoping no-one catches them. if
moons are turned into yet another form of endlessly farmable
resource, the game will lose out. nobody fights over asteroid
belts, mining anomalies or pi planets, after all.
so its no that moon mining needs fixing. its that the mining arrays
are taking that over for the current pos system and for the
reasons you listed above and for others it really does need to be
something that ccp has some people who have the knowledge of
the market of industry and of the current systems to help them
make it better. in terms fo what needs to be fixed with the old
system pos management sucks. access lists and everything else
need to have the right options for these and the interface for how
they are run needs to be considered.
in response to the reduction of seats for csm xii, commander aze,
roedyn, and myself are encouraging anyone interested in seeing
more highsec representation in the next csm to vote for the three
of us as their first three choices. vote strategically and vote for
highsec.
prometheus,thank you for posting this you brought up pve, lp
stores and tier penalties so i'll comment on those i do want to
circle back to the low sec pirate piece as i believe our platform will
support those candidates also pve is fine if you are in tier 2
obviously tier 1 can create some stress however it should be a
motivating factor to partner with the rest of the militia to get out of
tier 1 the upgrade system does not promote this if the tiers were
driven by system control it would incentivize the militia to take
systems vs just upgrading the hub it would also improve the
content of fights and demand improved skill sets from the pilots
just to competethe lp store needs to have inventory catered to fw
and low sec currently it has everything found in a high sec store
granted fw lp is gained quicker than high sec lp however there is
nothing special about the fw store if there were items exclusive to
it this could attract pilots to get involved in low sec even revisiting
the tags and how they are applied to goods in the storetier 1
should be 100% payout with bonuses at higher tiers it's not an
indictment on a militia for being in tier 1 when the mechanic
needs to be improved to evolve with the rest of the game if the
goal is to attract more talent, pvpers and content then the
systems in place should compliment that goal as for my two pirate
colleagues, faction warfare is often used as a "stepping stone" for
piracy and other aspects of the game the small print is if you are
in fw long enough your sec status will be negative we all want
content we love pvp so any improvement in low sec that supports
that goal is worth discussing imhoscylus former executor templis
calsf alliance
scylusthanks! lastly, what are some ways you feel you can
connect to lowsec players and convey their thoughts, feelings,
and opinions to ccp?
i think we've struck a good balance with townhalls and direct
contact (be it contacting subsections of the community directly or
being contacted by the public) and i'd like to continue those
moving forward... there is always room for improvement. i'd
probably like to see townhalls used more than just pre-summit
too. i did put together a nullsec focus group before the first
summit, consisting of leadership and fc's from all over nullsec (i
think we ended up with around 30 people). i believe we did get a
lot of useful information and pain points to bring to ccp out of that
focus group, but i'm not convinced its the best way of collecting
information. townhalls collect roughly the same information in a
much more effective and immediate way.i can't say this enough.
csm xi has taken the damaged relationship we started with and
with help from ccp transformed it into a fruitful cohabitation of
sorts. there were devs who had been burnt by previous
experiences which didn't want to talk to the csm for many months
(which is completely understandable) and we were able to both
integrate ourselves into their work and integrate them back into
the csm as an institution. this speaks more (and highly) about the
personalities of s than anything else.being able to continue this
relationship and help the next wave of csm's acquaint themselves
with the very complicated world that is ccp, while continuing the
current workload with as little downtime as possible, is something
i strongly believe is important. the perfect example is steve
ronuken who cut down what i would estimate as 3 months of
catch up at the start of our term into a few weeks. the shorter the
catch up period the more work a csm group can do with their
term.other than that, showing up to every meeting ccp has called
or scheduled has shown me the use of doing just that. while not
all meetings will have a lot to talk about, some are vitally
important, and you never know when those will pop up. i don't
think anyone could argue my commitment to the csm, ccp or the
community with how much time and effort i've put in over the last
year. i want to continue doing all of this for the betterment of the
game and the community. hopefully this helps make me worthy of
your vote.

while in recent years there's been several csm representatives
hailing from the autz, i don't think i've met one who has been as
proactive when it comes to seeking input from the community and
promoting the csm and what it can accomplish.his work ethic is
clear from his perfect attendance in csm meetings and his
willingness to listen and advance the players' concerns to ccp has
been demonstrated. i think the judge has earned a second term.
before you secure my vote, i need a csm-related pickup line.
you presented a good suggestion on how to rebalance rlml in this
reddit post:
formerly respected player, currently member of goonswarm
are you with the cartel? because you're definitely an
angel.contributer to eve is easy:
acs gain the least by going up tiers, more falloff from going to 220
or 425 would be nice. you also lose so much tracking going to 425
from 220 that it's usually not worth it, so reducing the tracking loss
between tiers would be nice too. i also feel like acs have the worst
t2 ammo selection. not having scorch/null feels like hell on
blasters/pulse but barrage isn't nearly as useful as those two
types. maybe putting a big optimal increase on barrage would be
nice, i.e. instead of 1.5x more like 3x (this works for acs since its
ac exclusive so wouldn't break arty, would make optimal bonused
ships like jaguar, munnin etc. better with acs too instead of
wasted bonus) right now blasters seem to win against acs at
scram kiting which this would help with. contributer to eve is easy:
great response, and i learned something from it. thanks suitonia.
it's so funny how a **** talking post actually did the opposite of
what the author intended it to do. bitter vet vs youtuber > 0 - 1
planetary interaction needs a level of improvements to make it
enjoyable and accessible to people. it will cut in some extreme
players profits but for overall mechanics there needs to be
improvements.
go erika freelancers wish you best of luck :d
i have always enjoyed looking at the reports personally because i
just found it interesting to see all the isk flows around the game. i
won't turn down graph porn. that said tho, i also haven't really use
the stats other than to feed my graph porn quota. it's sad that they
aren't going to be doing the regional stats anymore, but i don't see
it having too much effect really overall. while not to same extent,
we do have other resources to also get similar data for those who
use it.
thank you! i really appreciate it!
very much this. thank you.
thank you for the support!
sending out an e.s.s.let's talk about content.on paper, on release,
the ess was probably one of the best single ideas in years. in one
new item, you had a way to make nullsec more profitable, have a
way for ratters to risk a little bit more to gain more rewards, fight
liquid isk inflation via the lp earned, and a content seed for small
gangs to actually get some interaction with the locals. perfect!
players soon realized that the rats could do their dirty work for
them. content seed lost. i presume they haven't really examined
this or revisited it, potentially waiting on some grand revision of rat
ai. it's sort of a shame, it has the potential to solve so many ills all
at once. defending your home should mean more than timers -
active defense and curating of your space should yield far more
substantive rewards than it does; the game should be heading
towards more mechanisms that reward participation and 'active'
mechanics. i would think it would be great to revisit the ess.on
paper, the mobile siphon unit was probably one of the best single
ideas in years. in one new item, you had a way to steal from the
rich and give yourself! perfect! players soon realized that the api
could give them instant, free, reliable intel as to make the siphons
anything but covert. content seed lost, liabilities, lost. i presume
they have not revisited these due to the 'imminent' removal of
pos....when imminent is measured in years. they were a great
idea that got very little support. i wonder why. just saying, if i was
on the csm, i wouldn't be beholden to any interests which quite
frankly, were probably quite happy with the siphons
performance.citadels may be the very impetus for big ticket
content, but they are harming content generation among smaller
groups. no longer can you try and force a fight on a station during
a small roam - the defenders can force youa off without ever
risking anything. i hate to say it but eve is becoming way too safe
- the entire charm of the game was that all risks weren't voluntary.

i fly with vic and he knows and loves this game.+1
i think that my fw changes i advocate for will definitely help the
health of the average lowsec inhabitant, and have been asked for
by the overall fw community and regular lowsec pvp'ers for the
past few yearsi really liked noobman's townhalls that he did for
wormholes. i'd use the same format in conjunction with any other
lowsec representatives so that we could as a group bring up all of
our collective issues and discuss them with the lowsec community
at large. dev's would be invited to attend and listen/speak and
members in general would be invited to submit suggestions,
bugs, and issues in general to any of the csm lowsec
representatives that would be present to bring up in the meeting
for discussion. unfortunately, i have proposed changes that are
some of the same changes beyond the fw citadel changes that
previous csm members have pushed for and ccp have mostly
ignored. i'm not the only lowsec candidate this year, and i'm really
hoping that the lowsec community at large will vote en masse this
year to push more representatives of our gameplay and lifestyle
onto the csm so maybe ccp will finally listen to our problems and
suggestions seriously. additionally, the serious talk of drilling
platforms replacing poses within the next year in accordance with
the roadmap demands that lowsec players from both fw and the
larger lowsec alliances be involved deeply with these mechanics
because....the drilling platform changes effect both fw and non-fw
lowsec alliance. they both derive content and income over those
moon towers. i think that using current citadel mechanics, mostly
in the way vulnerability timers work, is complete **** frankly. it
takes the timezone defense to obscene levels. at least right now
you can strontkite if a tower is going to have an unfavorable timer
for reinforce. there's no ability to strontkite on citadels without
keeping a minimum amount of dps required to pause the timer
until the reinforce cycle is favorable to you. in general i really feel
like current citadel mechanics being brought to the moon mining
area is the single biggest threat to lowsec, for the reasons i
explained above.fw was never intended to be a pve-centric
system. it was designed as a pvp system with pve incentives. i
am behind increasing pvp interactions by adjusting fw lp payouts
for pvp activities, but not pve. i appreciate your input obviously on
all of my ideas.
i would argue that if there are more pve-focused activities, such
as increasing lp payout for tier 1 systems to something
reasonable (like to 75% payout, rather than the current 50%
payout), it would give more incentive to flip systems, and thus
generate pvp by default. the side effect of that is more warp-core
stabbed frigates running plexes, but imo that's the same
frustration as roaming in nullsec and being reported 10 jumps
out.other than that, thanks for taking time to really reply to my
questions.
no problem. obviously i'm open to feedback and you make a good
point. increases in fw payout like such can have benefits and side
effects that transcend the simple "pve vs pvp". i just like that as a
rule of thumb when talking about buffing lp payouts as a whole.
no question, you have my vote in this year too, sir
hey there dude. no questions but support of 7 accounts :)
this guy has been an excellent , but he is humble and doesn't
brag enough about what he has helped with. i support his csm xii
candidacy and urge others to vote for him.
make wars opt-in.
that is definitely an option that has crossed my mind. corporations
can choose to be unable to declare or receive wardecs.that would
take a lot of balancing, though. at the very least, i think it would
need to be an unchangeable property of the corporation selected
as part of the corporation creation process, and corporations
could only form alliances with other corporations with the same
opt-in status.
even if i'm not that much into the gameplay aspect you want to
change, i wish you good luck with your csm election. there will be
enough pure 0.0 / pvp candidates already and eve uni has usualy
a good coverage of all aspects of eve.be careful with that.
wardec's may be a pain in the *** sometimes, especially for
smaller corps, but they are also a essential part of the sandbox. it
would be better to reduce the wardecs you can have at once to a
small number. that would make smaller corps and alliances more
unattractive for "casual" wardecs because the attacker has to
make a decision which target brings his corp enough content /
targets (and that's was it is about mostly).lorewise: yes, please. i
mostly like it when ccp doesn't put it in in form of events or
missions. loved the caroline's star thing for example. nothing was
said about it, there was just this little new star growing bigger and
bigger until somone was wondering "hey, what's that?" and things
started rolling. or more lore-related, unique sites "seeded" into the
universe to be found and explored.pve: i like the general direction
ccp is taking at the moment with lesser, but much cleverer npc's.
burners were a good start and the response-fleets from the
mining npc's actualy use pvp tactics (logis, tackle, etc.). much
more engaging than just grind these little red dot's on the
overview.
edit because of fail
let's not go crazy on the changes now. opt-in wars is not
something that any eve player should strive for. conflict is the
most important aspect of eve. it drives both the economy and the
ingame content.what you should look for is ways of making wars
more fun, not removing them.
the wardec system definitely needs some changes, but nuking it
completely is a bad idea, and making war decs opt-in basically
turns it into faction warfare. still, the issues you stand for are
some that have been here since the earliest days of the game.
pve combat and missions need to be changed at the fundamental
level if they're going to stay a main source of content, especially
with all that's going on in null nowadays. a full wiki on the game
with a similar style to the uni-wiki would be extremely useful to
new players and those looking advance their knowledge. eve is
one of the most complex mmos ever made in terms of both
mechanics and possibilities, and information on those need to be
available. and finally, as a person who played both wow and
runescape for the lore aspects when i was younger, i can't
welcome a lore edition to the game enough!for these reasons,
you're definitely on the shortlist for my final vote :d
no thanks
hello, will explo data sites get a buff or rework?
thank you for your support! even if i may disagree with other
people on what can be done to improve eve, ultimately i want the
same thing that they do: for eve to be the best game it can
possibly be. :)
what for?the whole point of incursions is that they're a form of
group pve (even if many public fleets have people multiboxing or
downright semi-afk). if a player wants to solo pve, there are lots of
anomalies, signatures and missions he can do. what would
adding he same content with a vague sansha flavor add to the
game? roleplaying?supply and demand.increasing supply doesn't
automatically make people richer. see how ccp "buffed"
exploration and killed w-space explo sites as a result. right now,
people are farming tags. if you add more tags to the market, you'll
just hit the income of those who are bringing in the existing tags.
any reason why the game would be better off, besides the fact
that you want to buff a gameplay you know and hit one you don't?
btw, kudos for the work on helping to maintain the e-uni wiki, that
job probably benefits the community more than the entire csm.
ccp didn't confirm my application to run for csm yet.have faith.
when you submitted the form, did it return to the form, or tell you it
was successful?it should tell you that you're successful, but it's a
trifle flaky. doesn't like waiting around for any real length of
time.what i recommend: make sure that the two bits of text in it
are below the character limit. have them waiting in notepad, ready
to copy and paste reload the submission form fill everything in
quickly (including picking the character you're running as) submit
immediately. if you want to check, go back to
sent
i did it for the free isk.
make csm great again!
sorry for the late reply; i have been extremely busy packing up to
head back home and i haven't had much time to myself lately. i
have recently left mcav due to issues i had with ore sites in w-
space; as well as a new capital i have acquired. let me say first
that i still have intentions to help improve w-space; and i may
someday return.though, that is not the only thing that i want to
focus on. now, let's be honest; w-space is not nearly what it used
to be; and it will never be the same as it once used to be.i have 2
focus points for w-space. 1. ore sites; or the lack thereof.2.
bringing new players to w-spacei'll start with mining in w-space1.
generic ore2. no guarantee of an ore site3. no safety (unless you
have a rorq; see #4)4. mass on a hole if using a rorq (or inability
to use rorq in static because the hole is not large
enough)nullsec1. plethora of better ore2. guaranteed ore no
matter what ie anoms or asteroid belts3. system cyno jam,
bubbles on gate, easy to use rorq4. ??? profit?i'd like to see
better ore in w-space, sites should also respawn if left untouched
for 1-2 days.now; i know that the csm are not devs, and they only
bridge the gap between the player base, and ccp.i know these
issues were brought up to a couple of csm members during a
recent townhall, and it would be nice to bring it up with ccp. i
personally asked about seeing roaming npc miners, but
unfortunately it is not possible for w-space.bringing new players,
and new corporations to w-space. i believe that making changes
to the industry side of w-space would bring in some industry
based corporations. keeping in mind that i have not played
through the entire npe, but as far as i know there is no part of w-
space in it. it would be great to see a "further along" part of the
npe that touches base with wormhole space and lets these new
players know that living in wormholes is actually a thing.
bloemkoolsaus , please be concrete!! we understand you'll want
feedback but we need to know that you can identify problems
corrently on your own as being on the csm, you will likely have to
look at issues under the nda and cannot ask for any community
feedback."i am well aware of having to keep certain things secret,
that is one benefits to being in the military ;)timoxa zero, "also,
you haven't addressed the issue with z142 nullsec holes in c5
space being closed but still being visually "open". do you plan on
interfacing with ccp to try and get this bug fixed?"i have not yet
replicated this issue, as i have found a few z142 null holes in
static c5's and have not yet had any issues.if you encounter this
problem again please submit a bug report and send me a mail to
confirm that this is still happening.edward harris,"this makes it
sound like you want to build a wall and lie to us."ya got me! :)see
above^aaril, "i appreciate the fact you want to improve wh space,
but i am curious how much time you have actually lived in one.
from your post it sound like you are a ns guy who is just
interested in wormholes."i have been in and out of wormholes
since 2014 up until about half a year ago; when i joined mcav and
learned in detail a lot more about w-space, diplomatics, etc.if
anyone has any more questions, please send me a mail in-game!
man you joined darkness the only thing you're still doing is making
yourself an embarrassment.leaving a w-space corp and moving to
nullsec over "ore site issues" and acquiring a "new capital"
certainly sounds like someone with the experience required to sit
on the csm.
frankly, this is eve. and i have the freedom to go and do whatever
i please. if you dislike this so much maybe you should try to run
for csm.i had too many subbed accounts lying around being
useless because they were almost fully skilled miners; to add on
to that most known corps won't let you just bring 1 toon into their
group that can only fly fax and up. but then again you may not
know that because hk have a lot of connections.
for those of you who are interested in how i see the csm, i made a
video here which i think sums it up nicely.
main focus: game content/ pve / tools / 0.0hello all,i am excited to
be running for csm this year. it's my first run for csm, so i will
include my main goals and some background info in the post
below.there are multiple candidates from around provi running
this year and i would definitely recommend to also vote jin back in.
but if it is your alliance candidate first, consider gecko hareka
second... ;)media for the impatientpodcast english (talking in
stations):
i voted for you last year, and might do it again this year if i can
stop crying over that sad fate.other than that, thanks for the good
work on the wardecs. there was a guy from rff last year who also
wanted to make wardecs fun, in last year's candidates. don't know
what he's become, but if you get in touch maybe you can bounce
ideas with him.good luck, even though... fcon... seriously? right,
good luck anyway.
appreciate the support! i actually have him on my buddy list
already from last year - i was already planning on dropping him a
line to go over his thoughts about contracts which kinda tied into
my desire for a services hub, but i'll be sure to talk about him
about that too. sorry about your feelings about fcon, if it makes
you feel any better i'm more actively playing in my highsec corp
learning how to fc a band of bloodthirsty newbros.
i had a chat with toxic. great guy! find out more:
thanks for having me on ash!
been in and out of templis over the years scylus has been a great
leader throughout it all with a level head (which was rare for
caldari militia) even when the going got tough against impossible
odds (such as when galmil kicked everyone out of the warzone on
multiple occasions), scylus worked to overcome those odds many
leadership types in caldari militia over my 7 year tenure as a
blackrise/fw resident have simply quit, made excuses or even try
to pass the blame to others instead of this behavior, scylus asks
"how can we do better?" and empowers everyone to strive
towards doing just that even when almost all caldari
corps/alliances have left templis remained due to scylus's
leadership (lowsec for life!), which is why templis is one of the
longest standing caldari fw alliances never have i witnessesd or
even heard of scylus behaving in an unprofessional manner, even
behind closed doors all of this is a strong indication of his good
character you won't find a more professional, experienced, level
headed lowsec candidate capable of hearing all sides to a
discussion and making informed, balanced decisions scylus
would be an extremely valuable asset to the csm i fully endorse
this candidate
scylus has the steady but light touch evidenced by him steering
templis calsf (calsf) and caldari colonial defence ministry (ccdm)
through rough waters though a complete rebuild, its evolution
over time which has resulted in caldari militias longest lasting
force resulting in the lowsec apex force that is templis calsf today
he will have value with his unique input gained from the peaks
and troughs of militia and lowsec life a vote for scylus is the
surest bet one can make
i have podcasts coming up i will post that information here i am
interested in receiving mail about their concerns and needs i don't
profess to have all the answers i truly look at myself as a
representative to convey their thoughts to ccp in a respectful,
professional manneri come from a world where partnership and
working as a team generates the answers needed to a problem or
opportunity you know the saying "win as a team"best,scylus
former executor templis calsf alliance
i've only been in templis for about 2 years so i haven't known
scylus as long as others but i can attest to his near unnatural
ability to speak to and for his pilotsscylus is quite literally a shining
beacon in the darkness of space - he gives his undivided attention
to the topic at hand, offers advice when asked, and goes above
and beyond to help those around him his diplomatic prowess is
second to none and he is always courteous as an active
participant in fw for many years and under many hats, he has
seen what works, what doesn't, and what would improve fw and
low-sec as a wholei proudly endorse him
i will be voting for the judge, you should too.
confirming this entire post is pretty much spot on in regards to
current bs meta. i particularly agree with the sensor strength /
scan res / targeting range on bs's needing buffs and so glad to
see you have picked up on that. something i have requested
myself in previous threads. you have my vote on that platform
alone.if only people had warned larrikin that 37.5km scramming
hics would dominate the small gang meta and kill a lot of viable bc
and bs options before they were announced over a year ago.......
[/s]
may i present the following suggestion (also linked in my sig) as a
simple and easily implementable solution to the binary and un-fun
nature of ecm in eve. there is quite a bit of math, but the concept
is relatively straight forward without having to read all the maths
involved.
me too
given your own aptitude and interest in balance as a candidate on
the csm, do you feel there are any other candidates who you feel
serve the same areas or would compliment your efforts on the
csm? mrhyde last year had a large amount of his vote go to
exhausted (i.e not counted) after he was elected, and i feel that
csm 12 could do more with the raw mechanical knowledge that
he and gorski provided in csm 11.
this is a good question. another question suitonia, have you any
thoughts on how to improve faction warfare? and if so, what are
your thoughts on that subject?
no vote for me. everytime i engage this dude, all he does is trash
fellow eve players (me and others) who leverage the game
mechanics. someone who disparages existing mechanics to the
point that he does is dangerous on csm. i have a feeling he'd ban
all drugs, all implants, and the ability to receive reps (after all,
tough to solo if you run into "cancer" who flies with implants,
drugs, and dudes who may rep you).
lol - good one! eve quick reference pdf
will you campaign to remove the sov requirement for
supercapitals?
i obviously think supercap prolifieration needs to be accelerated/s
hello to eve players.as some of you may know, it is that time of
the year again where we elect members of the csm. this year i am
asking you to vote for me, even if it is second or third on your
preference lists.my pasti started playing eve in mid 2014 and for
about a year all my time was spent there trying to find stuff to do
and losing ships all the time. since then i have run an alliance that
fell apart, moved to provi and joined many pvp groups and
recently started to fc fleets.who i amlow and null small gang
pvp'er.pvp in large providence fleets.provi fc for 20-40 man fleets.
(usually talwars and small stuff)occasional streaming on
twitch.someone who stands up for the little guys, but doesn't
ignore the bigger ones.my campaigni would like to see more
emphasis on qol changes to make life easier for the people who
come on to have fun and enjoy themselves. ccp have recently
revealed some amazing changes that make life easier for people
and i would push to continue that trend. it wouldn't need to be
major dev-time put towards some of the fixes but they could
improve peoples play massively.the lore is another place i would
love for some improvement. it was going very well until recently
where it seems to have stagnated and a lot of people i speak to
would like more frequency. i would want to see more frequent
news articles that lead up to in game events that are fun for all
involved. it may be necessary to bring in major names from the rp
community in order to help accomplish this however i would love
to see a more vibrant world around us.i will represent the players
as csm is supposed to do, i'm not going to take the view of one
player as less than that of someone else just because they come
from and area of space or alliance that is viewed unfavourably by
people.one thing is that i will be open and honest as far as
possible without breaking nda, if there is something i don't agree
with then i'll push for us to get a community opinion on it.after all
of that, i am open to suggestions from other people and i am more
than willing to take on their feedback and do the best that i can to
raise the issue and get a response from ccp on those topics. me
not having experience is not a bad thing, it means i am going to
be less biased to a certain playstyle.contact details - mail me in
game - bardghost isudiscord - bardghost isu #4079twitter -
@bardghost_isureddit - bardghost_isuthank you all for readingfly
safe and remember to vote.

reserved for common questions and answers.
i cannot vouch for sullen's efficacy as a csm member enough. he
has been a consistent hard worker, running discussions with
industrialists on capital industrials from before we even knew they
were going to be re-balanced as he saw problems with them and
wanted a head-start on it. he's always been approachable,
reasoned, and willing to converse on any point. i will be putting
him high on my own ballot, and would recommend that you do as
well.
i will be voting for sullen, you should too.
+1 wealth of experience as said in the op
there will be an interview with the guys from the new german
podcast evepodcast.de. if you have any questions regarding my
candidacy and are a german player make you sure you poke
them on twitter @evepodcast_de(sorry for messing up the
sentence in the first place. doing too much at once)heute abend
werde ich von den jungs vom deutschen podcast evepodcast.de
interviewt. sollte ihr fragen an mich bzgl. meiner kandidatur
haben, lasst es die jungs unter @evepodcast_de auf twitter
wissen.
kalbuir already is an ambassador for this game with all the work
he puts in for newbeans in horde.i strongly believe him being able
to directly communicate with ccp via the csm platform would
benefit both ccp and new players as a whole and there's no doubt
about his dedication.this is a vote i can comfortably say will not be
wasted.
classification: unclass//fouoto: all pilotssubject: i started eve long
ago in january 2004, shortly after my 24th birthday, and have
been playing ever since. i have ~40 accounts with over 80
characters, have much experience in many aspects of eve and
have experienced everything the game has to offer at least twice
(except being on the csm). becoming csm member will allow me
to assist all of you in making this game even better. i have ran a 1
man (40 alt) corp for both industry & pvp with much success
(before they made isboxer illegal). i have been heavily involved in
alliance leadership (several years in the past). i have commanded
dozens of fleets (once upon a time long ago). however, i mostly
prefer manufacturing, mining, and trading (ie making isk trillions).
don't get me wrong i like blowing stuff up too, but usually its my
stuff that seems to do all the exploding. if elected, i hope to be
able to contribute more to eve on the behalf of you (the ignored
and misunderstood capsuleers) than i ever could before. trust me
or not, vote or don't vote, but if you want a voice that will not be
ignored, then i am your candidate!thanks in advance for all your
support (or constructive criticism).v/r,frezinviperclassification:
unclass//fouo
reserved
dear all,i would like to announce my candidacy for csm 12.i hope
that as someone new to the csm i can bring fresh perspective and
insight, that perhaps is lacking when the same faces are re-
elected year after year, which i believe to be
platitudinous.i<U+FFFD>ve been playing eve since the winter of
2013 where i first began as a humble high sec miner. i soon
however began broadcasting on eve radio in the summer of
2014.whilst at eve radio, i<U+FFFD>ve taken part in a number of
community endeavours including pvp tournaments as well as
major giveaways and the regular eve radio mining op.more
recently, i<U+FFFD>ve taken the leading role in recruitment for
eve radio where i have moulded and developed various djs into
the broadcasters and entertainers that they are today. as such, i
feel i can take some of the credit and or blame for the success of
the station.i have also been an active member of the eve
community outside of game; being an original regular attendee of
eve_nt, where i have had the privilege to interview various ccp
devs as well as players of significant standing in the eve
community. i am proud of the fact that i appear at the start of the
eve_nt promotional video.as a lawful evil personality, i consider
community service in a leadership role such as this to be a high
honour and i am a strong advocate for the harsher side of eve
which we all know and love to hate.as such i seek to represent the
humble low sec pirate and militia member.i<U+FFFD>ve decided
to run under my eve radio persona in order to comply with
ccp<U+FFFD>s rules regarding alts, however, my main has until
recently been an active combatant in faction warfare ex parte
minmatar militia. i would like to work with ccp to develop this
aspect of the game, one which has generated a great deal of
passion both from myself and others across the warzones
admittedly an area of the game which has kept me interested due
to its nature.i feel that even after the tireless work of sugar kyle
on the csm, low sec remains an unattractive area for capsuleers,
especially outside of faction warfare. with players either remaining
in high sec or being shuffled to null sec almost as soon as they
receive their first pods, as a result, large swathes of low sec
remain barren wastelands especially with the introduction of jump
fatigue.i would like to see low sec being an area worth fighting
over, with penalties and bonuses for being active in the area and
not simply be condemned by the thuggery of the highwayman.the
recent events that have been run, such as operation frostline and
purity of the throne were available in low sec, but there was no
added incentive to run these sites there with the additional risk
that comes from being in low, which ironically meant that it was
far easier to find and run these sites uninterrupted in low sec
space, at least in my experience.personally i was a fan of these
events, even if i wasn<U+FFFD>t able to take part in them as
much as i would have liked and i feel that there should be more of
them run, both from a lore perspective and from a player retention
standpoint as they were quite appealing to the casual player,
which i believe is rapidly becoming the standard for
mmos.additionally, i enjoyed the coronation of catiz i and would
love for more of these events to take place. when the state visit of
malteau shakor was announced, i feel that a gameplay element
was missed whereby amarrian<U+FFFD>s could have attempted
his assassination with minmatar loyalists defending him. i am still
waiting with baited breath to find out the real reasoning behind
that visit.on that note, i would love to see the events of faction
warfare affect gameplay in high sec and the wider new eden. for
example station services such as repairs or jump clones could be
more expensive in amarr space when minmatar have control of
the warzone perhaps as the result of a slave rebellion or perhaps
certain minmatar items could not be sold in amarr space as part
of a trade embargo.i would also like to see changes to citadel
mechanics whereby neutral or enemy citadels cannot simply be
anchored in a system held by an occupying militia. on balance, i
would like to see the vastly underrated mechanic of reduced
market fees for orders placed in certain fw systems. i would like to
see this mechanic iterated to provide an incentive for industrialists
to conduct their operations in low security space as such i would
seek to encourage pirate trade hubs that enable spaceship
violence to continue especially for those with low security
standing.and finally, one of the most complained about modules
in the game, the warp core stabilizer. whilst there are many
campaigns to remove this module from the game, i however
would like to see an introduction of additional escape modules
such as this, possibly in the officer or deadspace varieties.i say
this, not because i don<U+FFFD>t know the pain of persons
escaping me being stabbed, particularly in fw plexes, but because
i feel that it must be possible to choose the terms of your
engagement and where necessary make a hasty retreat. thus
allowing your underlings a greater share of the
<U+FFFD>honour<U+FFFD> of battle for nothing is sweeter than
the tears of the enemy you have denied a kill.if you<U+FFFD>d
like to contact me to discuss ideas and my application you can
find my details below:in game: dj-thomastwitter:
@djthomasgrnemail: thomas@eve-radio.comirc: irc.theairlock.net
@thomas on #eve-radio

reserved
lowsec does indeed need some drastic incentives to get more
pilots out to low looking for a fight.fw changes would be cool
along with something like "solo systems", in which you can only
use a jump gate every 5 minutes.
sorry, allow me to clarify. when i say "incursion rats", i'm talking
about the npcs that spawn outside of combat sites. i think adding
solo content to incursions would encourage more players to move
around new eden following incursions, and allow players who
don't want to/can't participate in incursion fleets to experience a
flavorful, lore-rich game experience.my idea for tags isn't geared
toward making people more richer, but rather to make it easier to
complete datacenter missions, raise standings, and purchase
items from lp stores. i ran missions exclusively for amarr
corporations for almost a year, and even after keeping all of the
tags i received from those missions, i still do not have enough of
the requisite tags to purchase anything from corporate lp stores. i
think individual players should be able to gather enough tags to
make lp store purchases over the course of normal gameplay,
without having to focus specifically on gathering tags.also, thank
you for the kind words about the uniwiki! i truly enjoy working on
it, and it feels good to hear that people appreciate the work that
we do!
i think it depends on who the defender is, really. i would say that
in almost all cases the defender doesn't have fun when they are
being killed and forced to use neutral haulers and whatnot when
traveling through a pipe or going to a hub.why would any
corporation want to opt-in for wars, other than mercenary groups
and whatnot? you will have literally almost all of highsec immune
to wardecs, and that's not good.that wouldn't change much to be
honest. this would just push groups to have multiple alliances and
maintain different wars on each. fill each alliance with multiple
corps for you to hop between, and you can have all the fun you
want and not worry about being limited by the number of wars any
single alliance can have.
it's clear that wardecs need fixing, and that there are a ton of
different suggested ways of fixing them. i don't claim to have all
the answers, and honestly finding a solution to wardecs is beyond
the capability of one person. that said, i'm committed to fixing
wardecs so that they're acceptable to the entire community.
i'm interested in finding out exactly what the entire community
considers, "acceptable". lots of really bad ideas and uninformed
opinions here and on reddit.
npe is prolly one of the best things that happened to new eden
since isogen 5. it's really nice to hear about someone wishing to
help ccp on "new player experience and other (in-game) tutorial
content".i'm also glad to read that at least someone realized that
having lost the igb made quite a lot of public & non-public
documentation and tutorials used by new players far less valuable
than they used to be. i'd gladly read a whole lot more of your
ideas on these subjects. quite a few documentation projects, like
fits collections, missions helps, etc remain in limbo since. even if
we all know that esi is the future (and a really nice thing i do love
to play with), nothing tells us atm if the information that was made
available in-game to the igb will be on the long run available via
esi : quite a lot already is, but should we except commitment for
some reasonable time ?however, since neither the csm nor ccp
prolly doesn't give even one tenth of a **** on these subjects, why
do you believe that getting elected would change anything to that
? or are you just campaigning to try to raise awareness from the
usual csm lobbyists hoping to have some of them getting a few
clues about the expectations of the playerbase ? wardecs are, of
course, a very important subject for newcomers. but you prolly
know from the publicly-available notes that neither csm x nor ccp
had even half a clue on the problem they created with this half-
baked shower-thought scheme. and since quite some time
passed since that mistake, quite a lot of players adapted to the
problem and some even managed to get fun from it. of course,
players having chosen to play with new players also adapted,
mostly at ccp's expense for having created the problem, and just
use the problem as it is to help people beginning into eve get
what makes eve different from most games in the industry. so,
why do you believe that getting elected may help to improve the
situation, however mediocre it is, which can be adapted to (mostly
at ccp's expense) ?
making war opt-in only would be terrible idea. if it's just a straight
opt-in approach pos'es poco's and citadels would be untouchable.
even you had to opt-in to have a citadel or something of that
nature incursion players and every other player who wants 0% tax
would use it. you would basically reduce highsec pvp down to
suicide ganking and station gaming. if want wardecs to be better
for all, teaching new players what it means to make a corp, and
what can happen when you do, is a start. also giving highsec
corps better benefits to staying incorp and not leaving as soon as
a dec drops. i fully believe one of highsec biggest problems is the
ignorance of newbro's (not their fault) when it comes to eve. npe
is a huge issue when it comes to eve-online and even though ccp
is make bounds and leaps with it recently, there is still a ton of
work that needs to be done concerning it. you still need someone
to basically guide a new player by the hand so they understand
that eve is meant to be unforgiving in it's nature. also have the
tutorials stop giving shield and armor reps to players at the same
time. seriously that's why we see so many people trying to dual
tank, it's because the game indirectly encourages by giving new
players both an armor rep and a shield booster at the same
time.#deletetheweak
thank you so much for your reply!i'm not sure i entirely agree with
your assessment. when reading the latest csm minutes, i noticed
quite a few mentions of new players from csm members (that did
seem to be brushed off by ccp staff, i'll admit). i think that there
are csm members who are aware of the importance of making
eve more accessible to new players, and that they may be willing
to speak up a bit more with someone on the csm who has that as
their #1 priority.i am sincerely campaigning to be elected, not just
to raise awareness. the first step of getting the csm and ccp to
care about an issue is to actually elect someone to the csm for
whom that issue is paramount. i don't expect to just waltz in on
day 1 and miraculously show everyone the error of their ways, but
if i raise the same issue consistently, logically, and relentlessly,
i'm confident that i can bring some people around.
so...
we all get like all the money
you can do it you sexy beast, i trust you you can do it!
you can do it. yes you can. lol
when this man posted in dodixie local i knew this was a guy that
could get **** done. vote for this man. make the council great
again!
this is a guy who has been around the block long enough to know
the ups and downs the community has seen.definitely someone
you want representing the player body to the developers!make
new eden great again!he gets my thumbs up for sure.
i was skeptical at first but considering how long people have been
saying this it must be true, like if it was a scam ccp would have
shut it down 10 years ago right?i say get behind eletherus and
support local chat begging, it is after all what makes eve
great*update - i was paid 100 isk for this post
having closely studied this guys campaign, i have to say that he
gets my vote. he has rafts of measures that could really revitalize
this game. i definitely think that if you want a candidate who will
try their best to keep eve fresh then eletherus is the guy for
you.make new eden great again!
dear capsuleers,this year again i wish to get in the csm, so we
need you.stop the bad campaign hereif, like me, you are a bad
pvper, you do not care about the alliances, the politics and the
dramas. like me, you think pi, fw, trading, ganking is soooo boring
and you do not have an isk to pay you big ships:simply vote for
me!this is my program for csm xii. i will update it regularly, your
ideas are welcome !- first of all, we want only 1 guy in the csm,
not 14 or 10 ! this guy will be chosen by myself and renewable
eternally. in case of death his son will continue at the head of the
csm. for the first year, only one candidate will be eligible for the
position: me- we want roundabouts and crossroads lights to
streamline traffic at the dedock of major commercial hubs such as
jita. this will avoid ships bumps and so many accidents.- every 2
hours of flying a ship, a forced rest will be imposed. this, to avoid
falling asleep when you are driving and create an accident. with
this system, you won't blow up yourself on a gate because afk.-
we want also implementation of radars between 2 gates, with
imposed speed limitations. 5au / s max for distances within 30au
between 2 gates. each offender will receive a fine of 10m isk =>
less space accidents- if titans or supercaps are present in a
system, red and green lights will be activated on the gates to
make the traffic more fluid. 20 ships maximum at the same time in
one system. -> tidi is over!- any corporation taxing more than 5%
will have to justify how they use the money. a commission of
players elected inside the corporation will keep an eye on this.-
for roamers, we want green and red lights on each gate ! how
deaf people can hear the orders "gate is green" or "gate is red"
from their fc?? so they jump when the gate is red, and they die in
the next system.... shame- at least 1 free skin / ship. why only
minmatar ships should be beautiful in this game ? other races
should be nice also- we will work to make concord as bad
shooters as the stormtroopers, in order to maximize the chances
of the pirates to escape safely.- the end of cynos with 20 ships
that jump in 1 time, now, the ships will jump one after the other,
with a delay of 10 seconds. farmers will have more time to warp
out.vote for a new hope, vote borat !

are you on weed?
very good idea my friend, i will propose something on that.....
what is this even? what?
so does this mean ccp rejected your candidacy application?
probably more to do with the character being sold.
very nice!!oh, come on...you knew it had to happen...it's
traditional... eve quick reference pdf
about meyou may have gathered by now that i have absolutely
nothing special or innovative to contribute to eve! i started eve by
going to the forums and complaining about how the game was
unfair and broken for alphas, sometime around two months ago.
sp you can rest assured i have little to no experience playing eve.i
have evolved from beyond those dark days into a fully fledged
gaypwneer, spending my time flying around in uttter, utter shitfits
claiming that i will be the one to break the meta.vision for
eveputting me on the csm will be your guarantee for someone
that will push hard for:- changing wormhole space so that there
will only ever be one wormhole open at one time ever in the whole
of new eden and it is frigate sized- having ecm modules be able to
affect everyone you lock, rather than just one person at a time.-
introducing 'realistic' flight mechanics into eve in which warping
across a system will put you the corresponding amount of time
into the future relative to everyone else.- not being elite being a
bannable offense- multiboxing being a bannable offense- adding
a new mode to t3ds, in which being in a fleet with other t3ds using
this mode will combine the t3ds into a gundam. - mlp skins.to
concludei have neve led a fleet. i have never owned a corp. i
have never flown anything larger than a cruiser and i have never
flown anything tech 2. i have little to no knowledge of game
mechanics and my understanding of solo/small gang pvp does
not extend beyond hitting approach and pressing f1. i believe the
csm will benefit from my election and i look forward to my much
deserved free trip to iceland. thank you all.
reserved for shitposting
looking forward for the gundam part!
once again, csm 11 visited ccp at our reykjavik hq for their second
summit. this involved four days of meetings between csm
members and ccp developers. as part of the summit process, a
set of meeting minutes are released. you can now view the
meeting minutes here.please feel free to discuss the minutes and
ask further questions to the members of the csm in this
thread.edit: added the missing link. isd max trix edit 2: messed up
the url fixed now.ccp logibro // eve universe community team //
distributor of nanites // patron saint of logistics
thanks for the support there max. means a lot, coming from my
own ceo that i totally haven't gotten killed or anything.
i would like the fully endorse jin in his reelection for the csm. he
has been a great asset in not just nullsec items but also the game
as a whole. as many current csm have stated it is better to
endorse candidates who will better the game, and are more than
just an alliance ticker. jintaan is one of those people i can fully
support as helping to make the game better for everyone.
jins got my vote. amazing guy that has done some amazing work
to help bring the csm back from what csm 10 was viewed to be.
stay tuned for a great interview with ashterrothi. will post link
when available
glad to see you running i've fought scylus for years and would
love to see you on csm even though you are a dirty squid
i think vic jefferson is a solid pick, he has a decent grasp of game
mechanics and is also good at presenting discourse and rational
arguments. rhiload could also be a good pick too. i feel like my
weakest areas are wormhole space and sov null, so i'm hoping
noobman will be able to serve another term to clue me in if i get
elected, and of course, nullsec tends to be pretty widely
represented already, and hopefully you'll make it gin and tonic :)
contributer to eve is easy:
i don't have a problem with implants, links and drugs. i can't
engage them with my 'clean' playstyle of not using them, so i just
avoid them. when those same pilots ask me to 1v1 when they
have a deadspace fitted ship with drugs and i don't, and they bring
in their link rr legion dishonoring the 1v1, then yeah, i do like to
make fun of them in local, but that is part of eve. contributer to
eve is easy:
thanks suitonia, i posted a response. i like every suggestion you
make except for one: breaking it up into 1v1v1v1.

i will say that i've flown with erika through at least three different
corps now. and she's pretty great. if you've never had a chance to
be in a corp with consistently reliable and affordable logistics, you
don't know what you are missing. she'll be getting my #1 vote,
because she, more than almost anyone else in the game has
made my eve experience better.now on to the meat:erika, i know
your intention with the accessibility stuff is to make it easier for
people with disabilities to play the game... but what about people
with high resolution monitors? will you make ui scaling great
again in 2017? asking for a friend.
thank you otro!and yes i approve of #maketheuigreatagain
remove the travel ban:get rid of bubbles and remote sebos. i want
to travel around eve and not stay docked.
always appreciative of your support jintaan. you will also be high
my recommendations.
indeed, that was the thing i did like about the valkyrie event, you
had much better chances of getting the loot in the low sec sites. i
also found them easier than the high sec ones.i'd like to see more
things like that, which are exclusive to low sec, to give people a
reason to go there.even with a warp core stab equipped!
bumping for an intelligent candidate with good communication
skills and a talent for constructive discussion.
he has a medal of wealth. don't you want wealth? the obvious
vote is for eletherus.
this man gave me 100 free isk. 10/10.
eletherus is a scam artist, don't give him any of your time, or
money.
don't trust 71350, he is a known scammer.
hmm, well i wait my isk :d
sent
i enjoy this man, give him a seat.
truly a man amongst men.
i believe in this man. just look at that hair.
you are the the reason cavemen painted on walls.
he explains it at the end of the other thread: it means he feels ccp
has moved he goal posts for the csm - again - and they are no
longer interested in having all gameplays, particularly his own,
represented.as such, this represents borat's ragequitting from the
csm race.
i don't seem to able to find the graphs. i just see underlined "links"
i can't click.
i had hoped the overhaul of the npc mission system was farther
along than these exploratory questions suggest. it's desperately
needed.on the first question, i don't think pve needs to be harder
overall. some small, newly authored, randomly selected goals
inside of a mission could keep the overall difficulty (if measured in
damage and hitpoints) the same, while providing new choices we
haven't seen before. for example, one time you're asked to rescue
the damsel just like it is today, from a structure with the usual
defenders. another time, zor undocks as you approach or start
shooting the structure, takes the damsel and microjumps (one
time only) 100km away: forget the structure, you've got to stop
zor. on the second question, i think new players should be able to
get into most level 4's during their second month; a sense of
progression and ability is important for retention; every month a
new player has to decide if its worth it to keep paying. the burner
missions provide great info up front so a player can make an
informed choice about the (intense) difficulty, its a good template
to follow for the most difficult content to help avoid morale-
crushing losses. the other level 1-4 mission texts aren't nearly as
helpful; most players are recommended to consult external
mission reports. marauders were overhauled (bastion mode) with
the realization that level 4's were too grindy, and here's the ship
class players should aspire to fly, for best isk/hr.
... link removed or is my browser broken?edit: ah, there we go.
thanks!
aryth brought up the topic of shield capitals and how there are
issues with being extremely vulnerable to energy neutralizers. ccp
said they would revisit it after releasing shield slaves. ccp said
that they were also aware of application issues with caldari
weapon capitals. edit: sorry, missed it when i read through the
first time and didnt come up under missiles <3 - any kind of
roadmap on this?bobmon brought up the topic of capital ship
movement via tethered structures. ccp responded that they're not
happy with the current system, but it was again a matter of
priorities compared to other work they needed to do.fairly
disappointed in this response in all honesty, i'd like to see dev
work go into making sure feature and content work and are
balanced before deciding they're "good enough" and wandering
away. i understand the reasoning, but it's pretty darn
overpowered at the moment.
wut kind of nonsense is this...the ability to cope with real-life eye
strain and/or have more displayed at once because of monitor
resolutions don't make a player good. the overview ui in a fleet
fight, particularly small gang, is like trying to read a financial
spreadsheet where the rows and values keep on changing
order.give us the multi overview.in fact, give us multi-multi
overview... i know that i would straight away create 3 for logistics
purposes... my fleet, enemy fleet, my logi.in b4 100-rorqual hot-
drops that can mine the entire asteroid belt in seconds so there's
no roids nearby to allow panic to be activated.
-
this new focus on ai, pve content is frightening me ... do you guys
even think before requesting new improved ai npc which pose a
threat to players? what i learned in the last couple of months, only
a minority does pve for fun only.
because eve pve is not intrinsically fun. if it were, more people
might look for it to be.
the moment shooting rats in eve becomes intrinsically fun, it end's
to be a pvp game.
i totally agree about d-scan hotkeys. i also would like to ask about
separate hotkeys for fighters. i even made ticket about it and gm
suggested me to post my request here on forums. he also said i
should post it on this forum aswell
i think the same, but for factories. instead producing 3000->20
something as 12000->80 , but preserving cost per unit, cpu and
powergrid.
when is provibloc going to have their own flag? #makeitso+1 vote
for jin'taan!
hey everyone, today i am announcing my candidacy for csm xii!if
you can't tell by the forum badge or just don't know who i am, i am
a member of the current csm xi. i am also the operations director
in hard knocks inc. a c5 wormhole corporation. i am running on
the platform of vote for me if you respect what i have done during
my time on csm xi. i'm not here to make armchair developer
promises to you of what i'm going to push for. the things i bring to
the summits and to the everyday developer chats are direct
feedback from our wormhole community. when we meet to
prepare for the summits, everyone is invited and we have a
positive discussion of the problems we have and priorities we
want voiced to the devs. i re-listen to those recording and re-read
the tons of evemail i get and prepare an hour long presentation for
the devs. if you examine the minutes, you can see during the
wormhole session that i used every minute i had to get your
feedback across. the wormhole sessions were unique from all the
other sessions, because i was armed with your thoughts and was
prepared to present them. no other session was driven by one
csm. of course other csm were welcomed to give their opinions
during my requested session. so where can you see what i've
done?csm 11 summit one notes (september 2016) reddit thread
comparing my talking pointscsm 11 summit two notes (february
2017)wormhole townhall to prep for summit one recording: here
and reddit threadwormhole townhall to prep for summit two
recording: herecsm feedback request: map/dscan/probe scanner
ui (3 months ago) resulting devblogrecent media: (will update
during campaign)the open comms show - 10 februarymy contact
info:reddit /u/noobmanhktwitter @noobmanhktweet fleet slack :
@noobmani think over the past term i have earned the respect of
the wormhole community. and those that were on the fence
during my first campaign are much more comfortable with how i
work as a csm. from low class to high class i represent us all
fairly. i'm very approachable so if you have any question feel free
to contact me. if you think i'm the csm candidate for you then i
would appreciate your vote.thanks
first.noobman is hands down the most active and approachable
wormhole member of the csm i have ever had the pleasure to
know and fly with. i would say he is one of the most accessible
csm's ever. if you have ideas and want your voice heard by a
knowledgeable and experienced pilot who understands eve, he is
a candidate you should highly consider.
noobman, i've heard from braxus that he doesn't feel comfortable
around you. something about playground bullies, could you
elaborate?
he has my votes.
summit one recording should be found here. not sure why
soundcloud decided to hide it. +1 from me. i didn't vote for you
before because i honestly thought it would be a bad move. i was
wrong.i'll eat my hat
thanks for both
i've had the complete spectrum of csm representatives in my eve
experience. on one end, i was in nulli secunda so i know what a
complete reject you can get with a representative like gorga. on
the opposite end of that spectrum is noobman, who has been the
best representative for my eve experience to the csm to date.one
of the most important things is that he is still passionate about the
game. he continues to find challenges and goals that drive him.
his motivation for working as a member of the csm is clearly to
improve the game experience for all of us. he is not a block vote
getting in to boost his ego and get a free trip. he is the opposite,
he is there for us, for wormholers, and he listens to everyone. the
most clear examples of how well he represents us are his town
hall meetings and how those translate directly to the message he
delivers to ccp as recorded in the csm minutes. everything from
fax balance in wh's without impacting nullsec all the way to mining
ore or npc spawn ranges in low class wormholes are on the
agenda. he is easily approachable and good feedback and ideas
presented to him will make it to the csm and ccp.his expertise,
experience, and energy make him the best wh candidate for eve.
he's got all of my votes. good luck noobman.

thank you for all you've done so far. you have my votes for csm
xii :d
only good csm member ive ever seenand the only good the csm
has ever done is promote noobman+1
thanks for the feedback, at the very least, connecting all the
warzones into a circuit would helpcontributer to eve is easy:
greetings, capsuleer! or as the old intro used to say dare to be
bold! so here<U+FFFD>s my being bold.i am a member of
brotherhood of spacers, a sov-null alliance currently holding
space in perrigen falls. while a member of an alliance, i am not
being a candidate for this alliance only, although my focus might
be weighted towards 0.0 as it is the area of the game i am most
familiar with.i am a candidate for you the players: the real
strength of eve online.through my years of playing this game, i
have really come to realise that the primary strength of this game
is the social structures that exist within the game. i<U+FFFD>m
not necessarily speaking of alliance or corps, but also of
communities like the incursion communities, groups like
bombers<U+FFFD> bar, spectre fleet, or channels like broadcast
for reps.i would love for those community aspects to be
strengthened even perhaps through in-games means, perhaps
ui/ux-wise.my second point is that this great game needs to
remain dynamic. while groups can start a chain of events that
lead to great content like the recent tribute war, i feel that ccp
could help motivate this kind of change. i will not claim that i have
any ready-made answer as to how ccp could help the ball moving,
but i will gladly participate with my input of whatever changes ccp
might present to the csm.as your csm, i will strive to be your
voice. while i do not keep a blog, or host a podcast, i am an ever
present part of my alliance<U+FFFD>s online and offline
presence. my alliance mates, and people beyond the confines of
my blues, know that they can count on me when the need arises.
-*-*-*-*-i have played eve since november 2012 when i created my
first character. less than a day in the trial, i chose to subscribe as i
found the scenery beautiful. after spending some time in my
newbro days in a small corp, i went my own ways towards
highsec missioning in my solo corp. while i didn<U+FFFD>t take
part in massive fights, i followed the eve metagame on twitter,
reddit, and through forums and blogs. i am an active member of
#tweetfleet and will gladly partake in any discussion about the
future of the game (hence my candidacy).following the 2014
<U+FFFD>this is eve<U+FFFD> trailer, i decided to shed my hs
hem and join with brave newbies inc. where i learnt so much. i
have forged some of my strongest friendships with the people
with whom i have shared space, corp, and comms.i am currently
fulfilling some non-critical roles in my alliance. i have worked with
recruitment, diplo, and some light small gang fc<U+FFFD>ing. i
think that being a csm would not impact my current roles.in my
real life, i work for the main library of copenhagen in the logistics
dept. my work hours allow me to dedicate most of my free time to
eve.-*-*-*-*-finally, i<U+FFFD>m always available on twitter
@minustar or in game. i pride myself in answering every eve-mail
i should receive. if you have any questions, feel free to contact
me.and with that,fly safe, dangerously, or however you like.o7
stellan c.
and here's an itemised list of what things i would like to see
implemented by ccp together with the csm. game mechanics
should encourage dynamic pvp and pve play styles. add an option
to share character information when applying to a corp. (e.g.
mails, wallet, assets, etc.) every mechanic should have a counter
play. system security should change depending on the activity.
the more ratting is done, higher sec. more pvp, lower sec. system
security band shouldn't change and should remain tied to the
static base security status. third party kill boards are great, but
there should be an in-game ability to search killmails one has
participated in. the market window should allow camelcase and
word search. "scourge missile" should return all scourge missiles
(rockets, light, heavy, assault, cruise, etc.) the drone ui needs a
revamp. drone health bars should update while tethered and
repairing. proper beards and long hair for male characters. the
new eden system should have a memorial to lost friends. right-
clicking on a corpse should have a "show character info" option.
contracts need to show which corpses are being contracted. an
esi endpoint to collect character sheet notes. hovering over the ig
clock should also display the local time according to the pc
settings. communications officers should be able to send ig
notification pop-ups.

good luck xenuriai believe in you
you sir, have my vote. warped intentions would be lucky to have
you represent us!
o7i'm putting my name in for csm 12 on the faction warfare
platform.i want to see a harder stance on lp farming and an
emphasis on building communities.i'd like to hear your thoughts
because after all i will be the person who brings your thoughts,
concerns and ideas to the table with ccp.o7
bumping in support for thomas. he is definitely another candidate
that has shown excellent leadership and communication skills on
eve radio and beyond.
hello.i really liked the thread.the information and critics are pretty
accurate.i am fairly a new player to eve.but i am fairly an old timer
when net gaming is the subject. i always read about games and
their background-storyline and always interested in
roleplaying.about eve,storyline,pve and pvp.i support your ideas.i
also think all three sides of eve gameplay should not be
seperated form eachother but should be brought
together.originally,pvp meant to be roleplaying aswell.people pvp
to roleplay the dread knight, hunting innocent prey or the knight of
valor,defending the lives and the honor of the realm and
justice.spoils of war meant to be the natural result of the
skirmishes.according to the rules based on the in game scenario
there shall be natural punishment for whom that breaks the law.
(non pirate amarr bounty hunters keep a track of an amarr pirate
player and hunt him down whenever he kills an amarrian
citizen...or the similar for other factions etc...same players cant
run pirates and bounty hunters to milk the game mechanics.this is
pvp with rules.pvp with roleplay.pvp with results.not only
scoreboards.alas,pvp part at most sandbox mmo games i played
untill now were simply this : some bully gamers who log in drunk
or high (or have some kind of psychologic issue) randomly attack
anyone on sight to harass and speak their hate words...i say
sadly because as i stated above,pvp meant to be a part of
roleplay.pvp should never meant to be a gifted tool to be the
annoying bully who cause newbs and veteran players to get sick
and tired and leave any mmo.opposite of this is bad for
gamers;awfull for the gaming companies.the reason behind this is
not eve developers.they meant to create a space fantasy that
people could run their own dungeon mastery and roll their own
dices and let other players play free....and that is the hot spot
there.when anyone who owns the biggest treasury or the
strongest weapon out there wants to be a dungeon master ; and if
any sort of strictly set- in game rules or written scenarious do not
exist...that dungeon master can do anything to anyone and
anywhere...can also get over with anytihng ,saying 'who cares i
made up a new rule right now...door is there if you dont like it'but
check this,the dungeon master is the narrator and rolls the dice or
lets other players roll and keep up with the story.dungeon masters
are not there to ruin the day,delibarety, for the dungeon
runners,just becasue they feel bad that day.i hope it is clear up to
now.the strong pvper,the corporation manager or a random pver
or a roleplayer are meant to be all equal even if they dont have
the same rights on their own property.if eve meants to be a sci-fi
scripted game with pvp and higly social interaction;and not only
an ordinary space arena; first person shooter game...then it needs
some rework about player interaction,corporation roles and how
players behave in and out the pvp situations.this includes roleplay
and reasoning when player killing aswell.with respect to the
original idea that creators of this game intend to shape.bringing
eve or any other sandbox out there to a better place...solution is
hidden there at sticking to the orignal scenario script and making
anyone following in game rules.be it strict,be it loose.
years ago we were promised to walk in station.i dream of others
seeing my clothing in station or sitting down and playing card or
other games in station. this was killed when burn jita happen, a
vocal group was able to stop the development of this part of the
game.i still want to walk in station.and would like to talk to and
work with ccp to explore completing content, and allowing a new
types of game play, including station related game play.
you can, but the chance of it happening is pretty low as its not on
the road maps. csm are not mini-developers. i would love it being
completed as well, but there's a lot more important that's on the
table than captains quarters.

while i agree with you there are things that may be important as
well, they've actually started this and had a reasonable amount of
it worked out and done. i would assume opening the station door
at this point is not insurmountable and would be relatively easier
than for example making dust 514
the csm doesn't get to set ccp's development priorities. and one
feature which may have no work done on it (i'm being very very
generous with that "may") is a very weak platform to run on. at the
very least, let people know what you do, and what you know.
i'm glad you put so much detail into your candidacy post. but
yeah, i doubt it'll happen and it's such a niche concept to run for
csm on... good luck.
banananananananana!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
thanks for your help steve. still no answer from ccp, i will mail
csm-contact@ccpgames.com. thanks to everybody for the likes
and the support mails.
k
lets examine what we can know or say about the character of
eletherus.you can always just a person's truthfulness by the
twitch that their mouth makes when they speak.clearly eletherus
can tell no lies.just recite the motto that is his
name.everylittleeffortthatheavenexpectsredefinesussatisfactoryhis
eye gaze downward is not in pity for the futile struggles of man
beneath him.he can't help that he is tall.he looks down so that he
may meet the gaze of every person he meets.clearly eletherus is
humble.
i honor the man who has honor. it is hard to find someone who
has honor in a game that encourages scamming, what else do
you look for in a man with as such qualities. just as treasures are
uncovered from the earth, so virtue appears from good deeds,
and wisdom appears from a pure and peaceful mind. to walk
safely through the maze of human life, one needs the light of
wisdom and the guidance of virtue, the guidance of the man, the
guidance of eletherus.
this guy might be the biggest loser on the planet.i'm jus sayin.
honesty is what i look for in a candidate. and i can tell you
eletherus was honest with me when he didn't have to be. he has
also been around a while and know what we need. i vote
eletherus for csm
two things are infinite: the universe and the need for eletherus as
csm; and i'm not sure about the universe.<U+FFFD>
what a nice man. i support you.
i support this man. he helped me in local once.
i am in support of a man that i have known for many years. he is a
great person and i would be glad to have him as a csm.then again
he promised me 100mil
give that guy a seat so we can make csm great again !
support withdrawn due to lack of pay.
suh,i'm dog0fwarr, and if you elect me as your csm representative
i'm going to bring back the glory days of eve online, the new eden
dream will be real again folks. it's gonna be mega folks, mega.
not good, not great, mega.i will push to have a wall built around
ccp's inability to balance their game properly, i will push to have
the effects of pheobe reversed or drastically changed, i will push
for a travel ban on crappy csm members who are only interested
in what benefits their particular block alliance or furthers their own
personal goals, let's work together to ensure that future csm
candidates know the csm is first and foremost a public service. it's
time to drain the swampa vote for dog is a vote for change, a vote
for a better tomorrow.m.e.g.am akee veg reata gainwake up
people,it's time for change, and it's gonna be mega.reddit q/a
i fully endorse this man. as soon as he finishes his "special"
treatment and cleanses himself of transmittable's he would make
a fantastic candidate.
gay
i'd rather vote for xenuria
oh...... dog is loose again.
sure
mah boi d to the o to the g, g fo' straight-gangsta. representin'
monocle real gs. i can tell ya mah dog ain't lyin' , ain't pretendin' or
posin'. he knows the rules, bein' real in the game.endorsin' two
hundreds pourcents. peace
my name is lord rocker and i approve this message......#fuhr
locking as this is a joke candidacy thread, as well as your second
campaign thread. you are more than welcome to continue a
serious campaign if you so wish in your previous thread.ccp
logibro // eve universe community team // distributor of nanites //
patron saint of logistics
thread locked for spam.ccp logibro // eve universe community
team // distributor of nanites // patron saint of logistics

the more ppl will do pve the more pvp targets you will have. i'm
more concerned about all this npe thing. it seems to not
accomplish anything spectacular yet. after initial boom pcu is
dropping, but hey new skins everywhere...
good npe is important, i didn't try the current version yet, so can't
judge about.my comment above was about that ccp has to put
theme park like resources in making pve intrinsically fun,
including new content, stories every patch... also people are lazy,
if the reward does not scale with the effort/risk, people will just do
it in secure space for fun or don't do it at all because other stuff
gives more isk/h. hence scaling the risk and complexity (aka
"fun"), requires to scale the reward as well, which leads to
balancing issues. see the new clever mining npcs, only few
bother, the reward does not justify the effort and risk. the drifter
incursions are a second example, first people found clever
strategies and the reward was too high, and when it was cut
back, nobody bothered to run them anymore.
question is what is good npe?we don't need new npc ai. i've
wondering what is the purpose for those new mining fleets. we
can interact with only by shooting them. what the point here? so
miner gankers have more fun? it has nothing to do with improving
any pve experience, apart from i can see the fleets on my d-scan
sometimes. we need something more than "warp to site, shoot
trigger, loot, warp off". after 15 sites most of pve players will
uninstall. where is the fun? in unpredictability. in difficulty. i've
done all kind of noncombat exploration sites, all types of 1-4 ded
sites, most of unrated complexes. loot table is good (most of it),
but they are all the same. this is no game for pve oriented
players. they will be bored too quickly.
but why do you do pve? what is your motivation? would you still
do it, when it's more exciting, but without any valuable reward for
the time spent?
even in high-security space people doing pve provide targets for
someone (read: mtu killers/baiters, mission item stealers, suicide
killers of blinged ships, etc...).not sure if it is a problem though.
look at burner missions. the problem as i see it: ccp cannot find
sweet-spot (or they do not want to).they either make stupid ai low-
reward npcs (look at recent event) or totally overpowered npcs
with big rewards (burners, i'm looking at you!). as result such
things are not popular among 'casuals'. i believe exploration is a
perfect example of properly done pve. it is totally pve but to find it
people go for low-sec and 0.0-space and even wormholes
providing pvp.
yes, it's nice, but i would not call it pve as it has more pvp
elements, and exploration is isk neutral. other than rat bounties,
mission / incursion payouts, which are faucets.but also here you
see clearly that not many do it just for fun ... only few bother with
data sites, why? because the reward is bad.
why do we play games? to be bored? it's doesn't matter how high
reward would be if game become second job. if i'm willing to
spent part of my free time to the game i want its mechanism to be
entertaining. exploration is all about rewards ofc, thats why we
"exploring", to find some good stuff. pi is good example, it may
bring a lot of reward (isk) but did you ever do it? i manage to do it
for a week. then i throw up and went back to exploration. edit:
second good example are events. i do them for the rewards
(booster mostly). do i enjoy them? no, because they are boring.
caught this review at crossing zebras (
faction warfare (fw) space is one of the best arenas where older
and newer players go to learn and participate in solo and small
gang pvp not only those who are actual members of the militias
but many many other players (neuts) and corps who visit regularly
i know so many players who have alts in fw space, it is very active
and (imo) one of the most fun aspects of eve online i'm surprised
that there as never been a ccp fw representative and it's time
there was one fw is over due at least a few tweaks, or perhaps
even a complete overhaul of it's mechanics particularly with
regard to the impact of the introduction of citadels and also pilot
sec status problems a faction warfare representative in the
council will be critical to this i can think of no better candidate than
scylus black, who has the knowledge and commitment to
represent fw pilots from the player perspective effectively he is
widely respected and supported across all the faction militias
noob is pretty much the only csm member i want to see on this
year at any cost. good dude and has done incredible work for w-
space.i'd write something longer but axel's post is spot on.+1
fixedloyal servent to mother amamake. @eve_tetsel
yet he's actually working on trying to get better payouts and
decent mining in wormhole space.i was like you a year ago, didn't
think much to the leader of the pack running for csm. listen to both
the recordings and read the minutes from the csm. he actually
delivered
so as a person and as an alliance mate, i fully endorse jr. i do
want to know 3 things. one do you think removing the refit ability
for triage only, was a bad idea or a good idea. two, what way
would you try to keep lowsec from turning into an area where
large blocs to dominate exclusively. thirdly, do you think eve as a
game is getting less skill intensive to benefit a more open market?
no doubt... fuzzy steve holds place 1 on my ballot.
jt has a lot of ideas that i like. also, i would like to see someone on
the council that could set forth some concepts to make the
greatest game even better.vote jt, i am.
you have my vote.ccp should here that some player still want this,
it might not be on the top priorites list, but with effort, this feature
should grind this list to the top.you could also add to your
plateforme that cq need to be available in citadels.loyal servent to
mother amamake. @eve_tetsel
yes also this. i dont know why its not there already.
if you could make that happen i'd vote you number 1 on all my
accounts... sadly, ccp is not gonna do it...
you know ccp only puts in what the players want. and if enough
players are vocal about completing it. i am confident they will put
forward work to it. i think from what i understand from confidential
sources a lot of the content was created and worked on. and that
at this point it was mostly left up to artists completing the interior.
but this could be pure conjecture from someone that was a scrum
master.either way i would endeavor to working with ccp to make
sure that ccp understands that there are still players, and will be
players in the future that would enjoy and make use of walking in
station.
eletherus has been around eve for five years so has plenty of
experience needed in a csm. i say vote for him, while many
players vote for the oldest players, some who've been here since
inception, a fresher approach with a player who's experience is
focused around the era of the biggest upheavals to eve is who we
need on the next csm.
[16:22:09] eletherus >
[16:20:05] tora bushido > watch me how i'll make up his advert in
local. he is going to be locked!
#draintheswamp
this man is a great man! he is a man of great integrity and
principals. over the years he has taken so much fire for the team
and he will do so once more! he has proven that, in the face of
great hardship, he can get the deed done! for years he's been
firing into locations that would make you cringe and i truly believe
that this man is one of the only men in the world to have walked
out of a south florida pharmacy, with a bottle of penicillin, head still
held high!he has offered to undertake the burden of the csm
candidacy for us all, to ensure that we fight for what is right! he will
keep his campaign promises and block all immigration of dirty
poors into our space.i am susan d. coomby and i endorse this
candidate.
a vote for dogg is a vote for mega.
trump memes never get old...



i thought eve was having trouble getting in new players because
of competition with other games? i mean, there are emerging
mmos now that support sandboxy elements like player driven
economies and player factions. there's eso which is buy to play
though it's a themepark but it is fun though. guild wars 2 is fair
f2p. crowfall is buy to play (yet to be released though). albion
online is another buy to play. in fact, if eve didn't go f2p i wouldn't
even bother to play.my point is, i don't think that not having a risk
free high sec space hinders the game from having new players.
i'm freaking new myself. risk is fun in this game and drives people
to form groups. playing and coordinating with others is what's fun
in this game. for me at least but i think other people will agree as
well. coordination with others mitigates risk. i don't think sandbox
and consensual pvp mixes well together.
i do and have a nice 5 planet setup in nullsec doing r0->p2 with
minimal maintenance effort.my personal challenge and fun is to
come out ahead in all kind of competitive situations using only
one char, which also includes getting same/more while spending
significantly less effort than others. incursions are an example of
an activity i tried and won't touch again ... it's tedious, attention
consuming and gives not enough reward compared to what i can
get by just chilling in perimeter. what i liked was the in-official
challenge to get hands on the elite drone ai chips when the price
spiked, so i ran a lot of missions to get as much agents as
possible locked into the specific mission to farm them for a week.
thanks andre! i'll shower later in all seriousness it's great to see
the multi-faction support we are all ll in this together anything we
can do as a whole to improve our part of this world and support
the rest is a good thing imho fly dangerous!o7 former executor
templis calsf alliance
good luck filthy squid!
i'll vote for you even though you are a filthy squid. if anyone is
sitting on the fence on the gal side hopefully reading this will
change your mind."ccp guard asked if the csm felt that they had
managed to talk to everyone andabout everything they felt they
needed to at this summit. nashh pointed out thatit would have
been nicer to have a longer community session. gorski
commentedthat it would have been nice to have a lowsec and
faction warfare session, withccp logibro replying that that session
in particular was not put on the schedule asthe development team
is unable to commit to anything in the shorter term andteam five-0
were already having a large number of meetings. "source
bit late to the partyi'm ceo of fusion enterprices ltd, corporation
formed in 2006.we have had our fair share of time in various
nullsec alliances, mostly harmless, morsus mihi, nc. , irc, nulli
secunda and presently in badfellas.i started off as a highsec
missioner, first reasonable taste pvp was a highsec war was
agisnt wrik hoover who is now a ceo in pl. since then ive tried
providence back when you could day trip rat / mine without too
many issues, to being in the biggest fights the game has seen
(uemon, 020, lxq, mto2 and others) i missed b-r due to
hospitalisation... ive lost pretty much every ship in the game, titan
and nyx included. killboardi tend to not backdown from fights,
unless its a trap.some people know me, others know of fusion
from past connections.ive had good communication with present
csm, and im hoping to go further by stepping up my self.some
items that i want to get addressed as csmrorquals / nullsec
miningbubbles / nullificationcitadel / ec deployment
mechanicscloaky camping....moon goochange ballistic control
system back to bcuand a few other items if anyone has any
questions, mailing me ingame is the fastest option.
reserved
someone elsewhere solicited input on your post with regards to
fw so i thought i would copy and paste it here.here's a little things
list that has been cleaned up and passed around for a couple
years that you might want to send his way. the original is linked in
the newfw tweetfleet channel.remove fw standings hits in null
sec.remove purple icon for allied militia - or allied militia should
take standings hit if they attack you (or just get rid of allied militia)
(4 way war confirmed as desired by ccp affinity).fw standings
eligibility should be applied on individual basis, not on corp
basis.remove faction standings hits for aoe effects (or other
weapons) when in same fleet. (or remove standings hits for all
aoe weapons everywhere in lowsec)fw overview for
newbro<U+FFFD>s in militia motd and fw panel.militia filter.
militia-only contracts. <U+FFFD>militia<U+FFFD> filter for pos
access, citadels, etc<U+FFFD> ability for militia members to post
future events such as future fleets to entire militia on
calendarstrengthen faction navy to make it harder to camp
opposing highsec to farm newbs.have plexes persist through dt
and redo spawn mechanics of non-outposts (keep them semi-
random though)randomize plex respawn rate by using a respawn
window.useful system upgradesdecouple system upgrades from
tier levelsmooth out tier system and fix payouts for pvp at existing
level 5 payouts.remove aggression from plex rats (affects afk
oplexers without hurting pvp<U+FFFD>ers). citadel problem.

i laughed at space politics of csm.
this is eve.i'm sure it will ultimately be revealed to be payback for
something that happened in csm 4.
iam influence powers, and i approve this run for csm.
erika is a very knowledgeable eve player! she knows about all
different aspects of the game including but not limited to pvp, pve,
indy, logistics, pi, and management! erika also has an extensive
bpo collection!! :)more than all that, she is a great friend and
corpie! :)vote erika mizune for csm!!
erika knows how to get things done, knows what is best for the
players, and knows whats in demand :d
thank you for the support! :) really appreciate it!
thank you, cay <3 must collect all the bpo's!
thank you rex!
i voted for erika mizune last year on her platform for accessibility
for disabled gamer's. csm needs representation on that one. erika
is more than capable to assume that role. erika for csm!
thanks for the backing.to everyone else reading, please come and
ask me questions. i'm not going to bite you :)
i have had dealings first hand with this man and can highly
recommend to everyone his candidacy. if you cast but one vote,
make it count and vote 1 brianum
jtclone ares for master chief of the csm!
thank you for such a detailed reply! it's true that there can be
great opportunities for pvp-as-roleplay, and i think that
emphasizing lore more in everyday gameplay, or perhaps adding
the ability to fight for pirate factions as i've seen suggested, would
make roleplay-pvp more of a reality.
blatantly lying will get you nowhere.
i thought that was how politics worked?
why vote for anyone else?(x) style(x) skills in battle( ) favela
lookaram 2017 official lnaw candidate
as a new player, you'd be a great help to myself and others
lying poor bastard.
i believe in you. make csm grate again!
the guys a junkie......vote the mattani again!!!!!"dont let your kids
play on the weekends unless you like exposing your children to
several thousand drunk and drug addicts" an unbiased amazon
players review
dont vote for him, he is quite decitful and would probably use the
position for his benefit
will get support after i recieve my other 99,999,899.99 isk lol.
make space great again!
hi,i am surprised that nobody has yet picked up on the potentially
coming changes with a new forum. if i have understood correct
ccp will give up (or will no be able) to binding a name in the forum
to an actual character that belongs to the respective eve account.
i personally find it very undesirable not to be able to match a
forum post to an in game character. that opens a lot of possible
abuse situations. i hope the csm will push to make sure that does
not go ahead the way it looks in the minutes. have fun!zora dijon
above quote is from csm meeting minutes.is it just me thinking
why are they so late thinking about next expansion...(?)
election timelinethe timeline of the csm 12 election process will be
as follows:february 3 <U+FFFD> 17: candidacy application
periodpotential candidates submit applications indicating they
wish to serve on the csm. no applications are accepted before or
after these dates.february 17 <U+FFFD> 28: application
processing periodthis is where ccp reviews submitted applications
and ensure they comply with all application requirements.february
28: candidates for csm 12 are announcedmarch 6 <U+FFFD> 26:
csm 12 voting periodthe polls are opened and the capsuleers of
new eden vote for candidates to represent them on csm 12.april 6:
csm 12 election results are announced at eve fanfest during the
eve keynote! found it
topic info / background for new players: nrds as an important topic
for new players!if you are a new player evaluating if my topics
could interest you, i want to point you to nrds as it is practiced in
providence.nrds means "not red don't shoot" and allows relatively
new corps and players to get out into a relatively secure 0.0-
region to see how 0.0 works. i want to make sure, that the
changes facilitate this kind of gameplay. jin'taan, carbon and
bardghost isu are other candidates who have experience with this
topic and could interest you.if you want to know more, here are
links to two articles i wrote on provi and nrds (older stuff i
submitted some time ago, but still relevant):the mysterious
workings of provibloc 01the mysterious workings of provibloc 02
<U+FFFD> redux...more topics here to come in the next days... if
you are interested in something in particular, just shoot me a
mail, post or contact me in-game...
topic/info: story-based player interaction/pvehooks for anchoring
player content in the game and why i think it is important for eve -
also some background on why i decided to run. i think it is now the
best time to gently remind ccp to keep the player lore in the back
of their heads during the next round of changes - so that it
remains the "largest living piece of science fiction" - something
that is and always has been a magnet to bring and keep people
into the game. player content is a huge resource <U+FFFD> and
ccp is not using it enough.check it out for more information:eve
history <U+FFFD> deleted or meant to stay?!and in german an
interview on evepodcast.de:evepodcast.de: gecko hareka 4
csm12.more to come...
lowsec representation!
low sec first!
he knows his **** and he's doing what he has been elected for,
you've got my votealso, one of the only wh representative arround
i completely forgot about fixing the leviathan and phoenix, making
them viable ships again
the phoenix is a tremendous vessel
thank you! i really appreciate it!
so here's the deal. eve has the highest degree of character
customization of any game out there. there is no other game i can
think of where who you associate with and what you do so
fundamentally define who you are. you can literally be whomever
you want, with no restrictions. that's quasi-infinite character
customization - it's part of what makes eve such a good game,
and contributes greatly to its longevity - no templates to follow, no
lists to complete, you are whomever you want to be.eve has a lot
of notable personalities and organizations, and no shortage of
enmity between them. there are so many unique ways, so many
non-trivial ways, for your character to define itself both by
association and action, that there really isn't a pressing need for
more development time on avatar play or cosmetics, thus i really
don't have an opinion on it. a finished captain's quarters probably
won't change all that much - revitalizing npc null or energizing
lowsec just might break some of the stagnation the game is
currently facing, thus that's where my thoughts generally are, and,
at least in my opinion, where the game needs the most
development.
g'day!my name is viktor koraka and i am an eve online player
from australia. i first started playing eve in 2005, but took a bit of a
break when i joined the australian army in 2008. i came back to
eve in 2012 and have been playing fairly regularly since then. (i
should explain, for any of those who might be scrolling through my
history, that i lost my account details from my first account so i
had to create a new one when i came back.)my main gameplay
experience has been focused around the market, industry,
planetary interaction and highsec pve. based on my personal
experience in the game i would be best suited to voice the
concerns and ideas from players of the above mentioned
categories, however, i would always be open to hear comments
from players regarding other topics in eve. i believe that as a csm
member you should be representing the concerns and ideas from
the player community. as a csm member, i vow to uphold the role
as a representative of the player community and will not push any
agendas based on individual or single group demands. if a large
majority of the player community were to bring up concerns and
ideas, then of course i would represent their concerns and ideas.i
have a great passion for eve online and truly believe it to be one
of the best mmos in existence. although i am quite new to eve
politics and don't spend much time on the forums, i am practically
on eve all day long. if you have any concerns or ideas regarding
market, industry, pi or highsec pve feel free to contact me in-
game. i will end with a few points on what improvements i would
like to see in eve to benefit the player community. improved story
content for pve missions. regular special events in high sec
(example; pirate invasion into jita, concord workers strike)
improvements to war dec system in high sec improvements to
market ui and market data. ideas for alternate power source for
structures. (example; solar harvesters) ideas to make pi more
interactive and less "set up and leave it for two weeks". ideas to
have a damage radius from exploding npc structures. ideas for an
interactive internal station area for players to actually walk around
and see each other. ideas to reduce or prevent ships from
camping in front of jita undock hanger in order to prevent larger
ships being bumped. ideas to reduce or prevent player deployed
structures or containers from congesting trade hub areas. please
remember that the csm is put in place to convey ideas and
feedback to ccp on behalf of the player community. i cannot make
any promises that i can make changes happen, but i will do my
best to relay information to ccp and get them to hear your voice.
thank you for your time,viktor koraka
i will be voting for capri, you should too.
i am carbon alabel, and this is my candidacy thread for csm xii.for
those of you who have no idea who i am, i am a member of the
alabaster albatross, part of sev3rance and provibloc, and this is
my first time running for the csm.i started playing eve in 2013, in
high sec, where i spent about a year and a half, mainly running
missions along with some light industry and trading. after that, i
moved to providence, where i have been building up experience
with various types of activities null sec has to offer. during both
my time in high sec and in null sec, i have also been spending
time in wormholes, though in general i prefer the false sense of
security provided by local chat and fixed gates in k-space.i am
also an experienced third party developer. i<U+FFFD>ve made
various bots, apps, and utilities (though not as many of them as i
would like are publicly available), along with numerous
contributions to the third party developer documentation, and am
participating in the ongoing development of the new esi api, along
with many other interested third party developers. i<U+FFFD>ve
also recently started a blog, for which i<U+FFFD>ve only written
one post so far, which should still give you some insight into my
thought process and inform you about some upcoming
changes.why am i running for csm? i know eve inside and out, i
have the time for it, and trust myself to be responsible with the
role should i be elected.what would i do on the csm? as every
csm member should, i will provide feedback to ccp based on the
issues and challenges faced by eve<U+FFFD>s community.
along with that, these are my primary beliefs and interests which i
will be pursuing:csm transparency: the csm is a democratically
elected body, and as such the voters deserve an insight into its
workings. even though recent councils have major strides with
respect to their transparency, the fact remains that the csm is an
opaque body by design. despite that, i feel there is still progress to
be made, and that i could help make that happen.protection of
information: the amount of free and accurate intel which can be
collected in eve with little to no risk or effort is astounding.i
believe that most forms of intel collection should require some
kind of investment of resources, whether that is in form of players
being active in space or infiltrating competing organizations,
deployment of structures which require maintenance and are
vulnerable to assault, or interaction with npcs.availability of
information: eve is a sandbox, and the ingenuity of its players is
responsible for a large part of what it is. however, many players,
both old and new, lack awareness of eve<U+FFFD>s various
game mechanics, placing them at a huge disadvantage.players
should experience loss because they made a mistake or were
outsmarted by someone, not because they weren<U+FFFD>t
even aware that a certain game mechanic existed, and
information on it wasn<U+FFFD>t available to them.third party
content creators: they come in many forms. third party developers
who make tools that help make some parts of eve less tedious,
writers who report on in-game events and help those who
aren<U+FFFD>t actively playing stay in touch with the game,
tutorial makers who help educate players on both basic and more
advanced forms of gameplay, and streamers who showcase what
eve can be and help bring in more players.what all of them have
in common is that they help make eve a better game in a way ccp
couldn<U+FFFD>t manage by themselves, which is why ccp
should support them as best as they can.that<U+FFFD>s it from
me. thank you for reading this, and i hope you consider placing
me on your ballot! if you have any questions at all, feel free to
contact me.how to contact me:twitter - discord - tweetfleet slack -
in-game
i want: more avatar options for exploring transhumanism,
cybernetic augmentation, that kind of shizz space techno
nightclubs these issues are very dear to me - what are your views
on these please?
hello my fellow eve lovers, its that time of the year again where a
handful of pilots run for a chance to hold a seat and be the voice
of players all over new eden through the csm. yours truly has
decided to step up to the plate and be a guide for the voices
wanting to be heard to try to improve the game that they love so
much. for those of you who don't know how i am, let me introduce
myself. i'm brohamo, member of ironpig part of sev3rance and
provibloc. 2nd generation player to the mach empire. i started out
in eve as a child 8 years ago hauling for my father. after some
time from the game i came back and took refuge in the region of
providence where i studied under some of the best pilots in the art
of null-sec warfare, industry, and beholding the nrds banner.eve
is an amazing game and there is nothing that can stand up to the
adventures and interactions that you will experience. it has many
unique layers that take time and skill to pull back and master and
the chain reactions, pure coincidences, perfectly executed
strategic moves that players can create and cause just makes
eve a truly worth wild experience. my friends, i ask that you join
me as we embark on the adventure to breath fresh air into eve
and keep the fresh air circulating as if we were taking nose sips
from our cans of perri-air ;)i promise that i won't be overshadowed
by my fellow big time csm members. if elected i'll be your voice of
reasoning and take time to hear your experiences from all over
new eden and try to preserve the things that have your heart
driven and stuck on this game but in a responsible manner as i
respect and hear out the needs of the other members as we
coordinate to improve and incorporate new mechanics. i plan to
dive into the following: alpha clones and the new player
experience push for a better balance with auto cannons
maintaining a fair-minded unbiased point of view on all events
and discussions that will transpire i ask you once more to join me
as i push for your voices to be heard and really listen to your
feedback and maintain a connection between all parties in and
around eve. we all love this game, even if we choose to admit it or
not we all really have a love for this game that drives us to log on
every day or so and endure the hardships or the stellar times.
please let me show that our love for this game is very similar as i
hear you pleads and concerns to keep you logged in and loving
eve.thank you-contact:via eve mailemail,
monomerward@gmail.com

still running for csm xii to defend solo players and their fun in this
game.freedom fighters, we need to have a voice inside csm, don't
let the biggest enforce their rules to you...sleepers must awaken !
character sold.
thread temporarily closed pending review.
i got the vibe that there was a lot of "we don't know how to do
that" coming from ccp. as though they've just about hit their limits
for what they can produce, and now are in a state where they are
desperately just trying to keep the thing up and running. they
seem to be always hiring but never really increasing their
capabilities. are they bleeding devs as fast as they are bleeding
players?
we don't know what resources are consumed by "nda stuff" or
other ccp projects, but i also get the impression that eve
development atm lacks of skilled resources, in both areas,
creativity and coding.
i also do not agree. i think skills should be only available from the
relevant factions and from resellers.
got my vote. best csm member.
i could not be happier that we have a fw pilot running for csm, a
voice close to ccp's ear. squeaky wheel gets the grease.
<3 judgeyour friends,test
was... now you need 10 damage application mods to come close
to the other dreads for hitting stuff...
+1 great guy, knows all things. has my vote!
yeap good dude+1thks for all ;)
not a meme candidate has made zarvox o-face on his stream
pretty sane quality nullsec mining and ratting well-established
corp with a good backbone plenty of help afforded to newer
players join fusenpublic for more infoerr... uhh... vote for ncc
thanks for the list. i'm in close contact with gorski car (ex csm 11)
who lobbied hard for a lot of fw/lowsec changes and i'm going to
take over from him and try and push the same things. contributer
to eve is easy:
thanks.
you have my vote.
not that any of this matters cause you won't get on
but...understanding how the csm can effectively work might be
your first stop.
this is where most people would list their myriad reasons they are
running for csm. maybe they would write out long platform
statements with some overarching narrative. their dreams of how
to make eve great again.i am not going to do any of those things
because i don't need your votes you terrible pubbies.
bump. most mediums ac's :)
in a little over a week. i have had a handful of both exciting and
disappointing experiences in this game. i feel like i could go on
forever, but in the interest of keeping this on track i will share just
a few.i recall attempting to play this game back when i was in high
school and the complexity was a turn off back then.recently
noticed that alpha accounts weren't limited to time constraints, i
decided to give this thing another shot. went through the tutorial
and paid as much attention as my limited span allowed.kept
saying. ah man this is much less complicated than i remember. (i
feel this is in part due to ccp's efforts in improving the new player
experience)for the first session of gameplay, i raided the rookie
help channel with as many questions as i could come up with.
which helped a ton!!!!after shopping around for a while, i have
managed to settle into a corp who has decided to take me under
their wing and provide a more immersive experience to this game.
(this same corp had a member who was stalking me in a
stealthed proteus while i was mining in lowsec with my venture) i
decided to be brave, open up private coms with the guy. next
thing i know i am a member of a small group of experienced
players who have been nothing but the most valuable part of this
game. is this a game? or is it a simulation of life in space?i have
braved the frontiers of space and dove head first into wormholes
way under equipped for the ad(venture) i was on (in)!filled my
cargo hold up with my entire life and risked everything i had to
move to a new home.my first highsec ganking experience being
running my frigate straight into a much larger vessel spamming
his smartbombs at the jump gate i was warping to.but i can tell
you the exact minute i was hooked on this game.my corp invited
me to go roaming with them as a bait ship. me not worried about
my killsheet jumped on that opportunity immediately!!! i wanted
redemption. i wanted to experience my first hunt and my first
kill.so here i am... sitting in a super tanked out punisher fitted with
an afterburner, a warp scrambler and some turrets which i felt
would essentially do nothing. just sitting on top of an activation
gate for a faction warfare site, trying to attract someone to come
in.20 clicks above me and 20 clicks below me, my corp mates in
fully fitted curse ships ready to pounce, completely invisible on
the directional scan. the trap was set. i was anxious. i was getting
bored. we moved around from site to site. system to system, just
waiting for some action. a few highly experienced pilots who
wanted to check the bait would show up and then disappear just
as quickly as they came.well i had practiced using my dscan to
pinpoint down ships in the area. low and behold i spot a jackdaw
on the scan and pinpoint it down to a gala rendezvous point. he
was out there farming for event skins. i let my corp members
know i spotted him. they decided it would be worth it to try and
take the fight. my orders were to warp in and charge him blind. try
to point him down with my warp scrambler to keep him at the site,
and they would come in and back me up.we align to site.... one
last check. yup still there. i warp in. hit approach, burn towards
him while locking onto my prey!warp scram engaged! (cmon guys
lets get him!!) he locks me on, i'm taking damage, my voice on
coms is getting louder and more excited (my shields at 60, 30
gone!!!) i'm thinking in my head.. cmon guys where are you! hes
getting away!! ( hes speeding up! i lost my scrambler on him!)
(overload your racks they tell me) i'm not guna let him get away!!!
i heat em up and manage to point him down again! man that
speed burst and range increase was the make it or break it of this
fight i swear.but still no corp members, i have tunnel vision. not
watching overlay, just hoping they are right behind me and getting
in range(armor 90!!! 70!!) cmon guys!!! where are you!... then..
boom!!!! all kinds of beautiful and colorful beams are nabbing this
ship right in front of me. instantly i felt an equal mixture of relief
and excitement! its on!!! his cap is draining. hes slowing down to
a crawl!! woo!!! there goes the drones flying right passed me! ten
of them! swarm his ship and tear him apart in what felt like
seconds! my first kill! yeah. it was pretty much all my corp mates,
but it was my first kill in the game. you couldn't shut me up about
it for the rest of the night. i felt like a giddy little schoolboy who just
got a kiss from the girl he liked.and here it is! my corp mates let
me keep all of the contents of his cargo hold.which i turned
around and made a killing! in the market. hooked. sign me up.
this game is a drug that cures my itch.so i am sure you are
wondering why i am rambling on about this in the csm assembly
hall.well. because i am a new player. i decided to read over the
minutes of the last summit. in the posts below this one i will be
citing some of the stuff they went over, and just offer my input.
now i know i'm the little guy in this, and i am only one voice. but
maybe just maybe i have a good idea in the bunch. maybe its
new maybe its not. i haven't spent too much time here but with
the new player experience being a hot topic as of late. well i'll give
it a shot.
now to start this off, reading the minutes of the summit i sort of
honed in on a specific member who seemed to have new players
on his mind the most. xenuria.quote:xenuria: current state is a
vast and moving social medium, in a better state than previously
but needs work. dream change would be for the social aspect to
help new players keep playing. in a game where the community is
in the drivers seat. (eve being the shining star of this example)-
the things i have been told, and the experiences i have had thus
far seem to be polar opposites of each other,"everyone in this
game is an *******, you can't trust anyone". "at any given time you
can be killed or betrayed".while these statements may hold an
inkling of truth to them, so far i have seen and received myself, a
great deal of help from veteran players. even people who have
killed me out there in lowsec. have taken the time to have a
conversation with me and even teach me how to be more
proficient in "flying safe" i think in general. the community is still
pretty darn helpful to newer players. even if they do teach you a
harsh lesson.
quote:xenuria explained that he had guided a number of people
through the npe, and that he had found with all of them that they
had been overwhelmed the first time they docked and were asked
to inject a skill. one thing he also pointed out was that players are
not told explicitly that skills will always be training regardless of
whether or not you are logged in or not. ccp paradox explained
that this is something they have already fixed with the next
version.-the npe did a great job initially, and yes. even with the
improvements, aura does not cover many facets of your options
for character development. one thing i did have to do research on
was how attribute points worked. both by googling and asking
other players. as far as i can recall. the tutorial says nothing about
them, and very little info is scripted into the game on how they
work.
quote:xenuria pointed out that one of the things that players have
trouble with still is that weapons have limited ranges.-not only
that! but they do nothing to explain the damage types that your
weapons do, or how certain enemies can be tougher to kill using
them. more on this in my personal thoughts.quote:xenuria brought
up that it would be good to encourage players to complete a task
that they need to do some learning on their own, so as to
encourage them to start getting into the habit of searching for
solutions. he pointed out that it needed to be relatively simple so
that they can work it out on their own. ccp surge asked if he
thought it should come before the career agents, to which xenuria
replied yes. - i really like the idea of this. but off the bat the only
practical type of scenario i could come up with is where an agent
sends you to bring them something (lets call it the mystery box)
and there are 3 different ones, only one of them being the correct
answer. which could cause you to spend extra time on your
mission finding the right item.-i see it as a test. maybe you could
get one before you set off for your first agent missions become
available, then to end each of the starting agents, the same type
of scenario.quote: xenuria asked if it would be possible to pay to
force a video to be played in a specific area for the purpose of
psychological warfare, to which ccp replied maybe. ccp also
added that keeping videos in rotation is going to have a cost in
the future, and that you would add them through account
management. - such an awesome idea. keep them coming! i
really hope that this makes it into the game some
day.quote:xenuria added that it would be good to make it so that
the tasks also assess how well you completed the objective
rather than did you complete the condition. ccp surge like the idea
of an efficiency rating.- i really like this idea too, it seems that
when i was running my missions. i was being reckless the entire
time in order to get it done quickly. all i wanted was the mission
speed bonus for a bigger pay out. i learned nothing about how
well i was doing in a realistic perspective. i think that other factors
which affect the payout, could help shape a pilot for the better.my
personal thoughts and suggestions- one thing i wish i had learned
earlier on in this game was about resistances. since i am limited
to faction specific weaponry (being amarr its beam and pulse
lasers) along with my ships resistances and modules which could
help.perhaps find a way for pilots to learn about them? could be
as simple as having an agent mention:"these (insert whoever
your fighting here) tend to favor (insert whatever type of damage
their weapons do) and the ships they favor flying are most
vulnerable to (insert whatever type of damage here). i suggest
you fit your ship to compensate for the parameters of this mission"
the first time i had ever seen this was on one of ccp's youtube
videos talking about the gala event. i thought it might be nice for
agents to offer the same kind of info sometimes, especially the
lower level missions. i feel this could help pilots learn how to be
more efficient and effective with the ships they fly.-for a quality of
life suggestion, after learning how to use the market better. there
is one thing that still ercks me everytime.when i have buy and sell
orders up, and i use the "my orders" tab to look them up, i would
love to see a colored bar on them if they are still the highest price
purchase order, or the lowest price sell order. i like that i can see
them in the market details clearly marked in blue. but if i have a
lot of them on the market. it really is a pain to individually have to
check on them to make sure i am still offering the best price.-now i
know that scams are a part of this game, and the learning curve is
really steep. but there is a specific item i looked up which is still in
game and as far as i know, serves no purpose anymore. which
are the attribute boosters from previous events which are now
expired. i know very little about them so this could be a shot in the
dark. but instead of them only being sold on market to swindle
someone out of their money. maybe offer an option to repurpose
them somehow?well i hope someone else here sees this and likes
my input. thanks for allowing me to take your time.
blackbeard...
i'll vote for you, because the csm seems like a joke and you are
good at those.
you sure op intended to do what you think he intended to do?
i had to share car rides with xenuria to and from the airport at both
summits. he did not murder me. +1edit: also he got you pink
skins.
i should note, pink skins have been heavily pushed in the past.
sugar _kept_ asking for them. (pink skins being short hand for 'oh
god, give me bright colors')
                                                                      1
speaking from experience, sullen is one of the hardest working
members of csm xi. before last years election season i'd never
talked to him before. almost immediately after our term started he
had proven himself as a knowledgeable guy with a great work
ethic. i don't think i could ever say enough good things about how
he has presented himself on csm xi. he has without a doubt
earned a second term on the csm and would be an asset for the
csm, ccp and the player base. if you don't have sullen somewhere
on your ballot, you're making a mistake.

the problem is you lack vision and inspiration. sean would
chastise you for the same. rip vr.
behind the tough exterior, he's actually a pretty nice guy. kind of
like the cool dad figure on csm 11. also, he finds good beer in
iceland.
greetings amantus, i am not an expert in transhumanism, but you
can submit your ideas here. space techno nightclub could be an
alternative to space bar. we could imagine being able to mix with
your keyboard and mouse wheel.imagine being able to send vip
tickets to your friends to join your private techno party where you
could mix? even if i am a huge fan of ccp and especially ccp
fozzie and his hard work to balance the game, i quite dont
understand how is it possible that new eden hasn't space techno
party gameplay implemented already.
good luck gecko!an idea for you - ship builder corporations logos
could be on ships, or if too difficult to do on all ships, maybe some
types of ships can have a builders mark of some sort. if my
corporation builds a ship and we sell it and the buyer sees our
logo/ticker maybe they want to contact us to get more ships...built
in advertisement. <3 tasha
with the thousands of years there is to play with as far as in-game
lore goes and with what has been done already to bring that lore
to the player, i do agree that there could be more added to the
game in that regard for all security spaces. i also agree entirely
that nrds and the idea behind providence is great for the new
player experience and would like to see more than a generic plus
or negative 5 or 10.
i personally would like to see boost ships put back into system
wide boosting instead of on grid boosting, as it makes miners life's
more harder and more expensive when trying to work in the fields
and you need to spend like 10 mins trying to warp a giant boost
ship out the belt before a fleet of ceptors comes and scrams you
while dropping cynos for others to blow you up.the way boosts
worked before was fine, i don't mind keeping the ammo charges,
just would love to see boost ships back in safe spots boosting
system wide, instead of forcing people to sacrifice there own
mining fleets to get a personal booster as there isn't enough
people around in any system to boost fleets, so lots suffer from
lack of bonus ore gains, specially the people who are dedicated to
indy.2nd thought... something to tackle the issue of afk cloaky
campers in systems, yes they are annoying as hell to deal with,
and worse when they not even there 90% time, maybe add a afk
timer logout system to the game where if you dont click
something in x time you get logged out, or add a module to sov
holder systems where you can detect there cloaked ships, or
even a tower module that decloaks ships in a entire system, so
we can combat scan them down and kill them while they are afk
sleeping all time, something that has bugged many players for
years this situation has and no one has tackled it personally.3rd
thought... maybe add some new ships to the game (not t3
combats but maybe, a new form of mining/indy ship) something
that is like the current t2 ships, but can mine more like a rorqual
but isn't as big as one, and slow as one, and also update the
industrial ships, i mean a miasmos in null with 63k hold isn't
enough and im not saying bring freighters into it, im suggesting
maybe a bigger hold ship designed for ore/mineral moving for the
people who mine with fleets of alts and don't like to dock ships
every 5 minutes.these are just some thoughts i had lingering in
my mind and thought would throw them out in a moment of just
hoping maybe one day they will become a reality :)
full support for gecko as csm best of luck buddy \o/ideas to talk to
ccp about. *jump bridge modules for citadels.*wider range of
standings colorus would be very much appreciated*active cloak
timer i.e max 1 hour cloak before a cooldown.*fixing the poco's
not "seeing/using" alliance standings*moon harvesters capable of
harvesting the "abundance 2" mats*moon goo reactors for
citadels*a new capital of some breed ? vov just my crazy ideas
:)best of luck got my vote \o/
wishing you all the best for csm, we'll all be there championing
you for the spot!i would really like to get cloaky camping looked
at. we all know it's an age old mechanic, but i think it really needs
to be reviewed as the game moves on. when off-grid boosting
was in effect, the number one complaint was that, well, off-grid
boosting is a thing. miners/indies complained that
gankers/wardeccers used combat boosts from across the system,
and likewise they complained that orcas/rorquals were sitting safe
in pos shields/tethers with impunity. that changed in ascension,
and here we are now.cloaky camping brings up a number of
issues, especially in null. a single person in a cheap cloaky ship
can in effect cripple activities in a system. now while there is no
problem with this mechanic per se - after all, if he is there at the
controls, more power to him for being able to do that.the problem
is what's stopping someone logging in after dt, cloaking up, and
leaving for the whole day. they are not actively playing the game,
and aside from the one in a billion chance of someone decloaking
them by bumping into them, they are totally immune. and they are
having an effect on the system without potentially being there.
now increase this to multiple pilots, and you see what i am getting
at.i think cloaking should have a timed mechanic whereby a
cloaked ship must do an action within a certain time limit - for
example, change heading, move (not necessarily decloak). in
essence, showing that the pilot is still there. if they do not, the
cloaking module starts to take overheat damage, and with each
time limit passed, it gets prone to failure. once it has started to
take heat damage from running too long without any action, then
it shuts down for x minutes.if you want to build in a lore
explanation, the cloaking device starts heating up while all other
ship systems are not working. without sufficient cooling on behalf
of the ships systems running, the device starts to fail.i think if
such a mechanic was set up, even with the time limit set to as
long as an hour, it would have a big improvement on the
gameplay, forcing players whose entire mechanic is to camp
cloak systems to actually be at their consoles. or, if this was to be
put to more detailed effect, a skill can be introduced, cloaking
specialization, where you can increase your cloak timer for each
level. the maximum should still not exceed one hour.
one more idea, for quality of life - and a simple one to
implement.each combat ship should have an ammo bay. unlike a
fleet hangar or drone bay however, this should literally just be a
label, so the overall space is still combined with the normal cargo
bay. but this would allow us to keep ammo & boosters in a
separate area to the main cargo and not accidentally offload them
when clearing out bought items, salvage if ratting etc. so it has no
effect on the actual cargo capacity of the ship, as the cargo bay +
ammo bay are still combined in size, but just allows us to
categorise charges:* your favourite ship - ammo bay - drone
bayjust a thought.
here is a couple of ideas for you. 1. target management. a clear
way to see who in your fleet is shooting at. so the fleet can
concentrate fire or each of them can shoot at another target to
make fights more efficient. 2. a way to share missions so anyone
in the fleet can read the mission and objectives. also being able to
warp to the mission on the agents missions list independantly. 3.
fleet warping to agent mission bookmarks.hope these help you.
go gecko !!bring passive mining boosts back :)))... and make
items in hangaras multi split !!!my best wishes for your election
hey gl man;would like to see a buff tot he rate npc space spawns
anomalies, we cannot upgrade the ihubs or anything so some
days content is sparse at best.kali
good luck at the polls gecko gecko and his corp are
representative of the best of providence. we have a very inclusive
group of players and with nrds provide an enclave in null sec that
is perhaps not unique, but allows for non-alliance players and
corps to feel as safe as our own.aside from some of the great
ideas already posted in this thread is some kind of installation that
allows citadels to scan down cloaked ships that have been
inactive for hours on end (aka afk campers) - if there were a 2 or
3 hour scan time for scanning down cloaked ships it would
dissuade people from logging in their favourite cloak cyno ship
and then going to workgfc - gecko for csm
gecko, you are the nicest person and i know everyone who meets
you in rl will adore you. you have been here since our early days
and i know you will represent afk well. may you help to open new
doors of opportunity for all and earn respect for the nrds way.
even though it is the hardest (and often unsafest) way we can
play, we share the fundamental belief that our values cannot be
compromised, we enjoy helping those who need it, and we hold
ourselves above the savages that ruin the experience for others.
although evildoers may gain strength now from their many victims
tears, we introduce more players every day to nrds who will work
tirelessly against those who grief and scam players. i know you
will listen to people<U+FFFD>s feedback with enthusiasm and
help them always. from many backgrounds of diversity we are
nevertheless united and from all of us may you gather the
strength of ideas, wisdom, faith, and trust.to ccp -fix the bugs.
slow down the changes.i would personally like to see you slow
down on some of the radical changes to the game a little.
it<U+FFFD>s exciting to see new additions to the game but when
so many changes are introduced at one time and constantly more
on top of that repeatedly it leaves even many older players feeling
noobish and it<U+FFFD>s not quite as fun to relearn things you
were already good at over and over. the excitement that should be
like <U+FFFD>hey there<U+FFFD>s changes
awesome<U+FFFD> often sounds more like <U+FFFD>ccp and
all these #@$!*&% changes (grumble grumble)<U+FFFD>.
people may poke their heads in because <U+FFFD>yey free
alpas<U+FFFD>, but they quickly feel overwhelmed and lose
attention faster than they get the interest to plex their accounts
and become invested in playing again. the reason you have a
much smaller active audience at any given time now than
historically is because most people simply cannot keep up with
the enthusiasm of your team to implement great new things and
they feel left behind. save up some of the new ideas you want to
add in and mix them in a little slower. there<U+FFFD>s nothing
wrong with the changes, but the last few years have been
increasingly excessive in how many and how close together. go
back and spend some time and fix the kinks that drive us all crazy
from day to day and everyone will love you for it and
you<U+FFFD>ll give your inactive veteran players a chance to
catch up and make full comebacks. if you feel the need to go into
hero coding mode your production types will love you if you make
the industry window lag a little less, but please stop changing
things so much that many need to spend more time reading up on
all the changes than playing the actual game.drive more industrial
corporation growth. tidy up the bpo lockdown interface.if there's
one thing i would like to see addressed is that the entire bpo
lockdown functionality is way overdue for an overhaul. the voting
process is tiresome with the way the window drop downs don't
keep track of batch lockdowns. ccp please go try to lock down
100 bpo<U+FFFD>s and see how long it takes you even when
you totally understand the game mechanics it<U+FFFD>s really
brutal even for your die hard bpo collectors. i'm not saying to go
change the formula of how many minerals each bpo needs to
build something again, or to change the max me/pe again or to
phase out more bpo<U+FFFD>s we all spent time researching -
i'm just saying its a pain in the rear to lock bpo's down and that's
why so many corps have thefts of them. if this mechanic was
easier more corporations could buy more bpo's and build nicer
collections to be self-sufficient. self-sufficiency means when
someone plays with the market prices in game, you can build
things yourself so it would have an effect on the way power
alliances can drive market prices while also better enabling the
ability of corporations to work together to share their assets
effectively and unite efforts around stable and consistent
gameplay styles. help the industrial corps to grow by making the
lockdown voting be a lot tidier looking of an interface.good luck
gecko!o7raelyafk executor

gecko for csm! o/if ccp could make a module that would help
capsuleers fight against cloaky campers that would be great.
some way that they cannot just leave the pc while staying cloaked
all the time. something that would require them to be actively at
the game.best of luck!you have my vote :d
gecko for csm! o/i support this idea. no more afk then 10 minutes
for this .... hhmmm ... people.
on grid boosting is fine, (god i know i'ma get hate)regarding
'standings list'rather than having every player/corp/alliance add
members to their limited list, taking up a slot, and having this
repeat across multiple players/corp/alliances, ccp should allow
(example) cva to generate lists with those they deem
red/orange/neut/blue/blah/blah/blah... their allies can then choose
which lists to follow. overall this should cut back on how many
active lists are out there and with multiple lists it could get rid of
the cap on number of slots we currently have.war (or lack there
of)war declarations should have a reason, not just 'because'.
example: corp a declares war on corp b over 1 (or more) of the
asteroid belts on a system. corp a can then attack corp b only and
only if they are in said asteroid belts. if the war is over an entire
system, then the cost goes up, but now corp a can attack corp b
any where in the system. constellation, then region... example 2:
corp a wants a phisical object, say a poco. corp a declares war
over said poco, crop b can choose to end the war by surrendering
the poco (corp a would then pay corp b for the poco at market
value) and ending the war (after all... the war was over the poco).
crop b can choose to fight over the poco, which means that within
the grid of the poco, corp a and b can go at it.this would only
apply to high-sec and low-sec systems, null after all is lawless.
a few simple ideas that i don't know why still haven't been done.
hell, i'll fly to iceland and code it in if need be :)* allow
repackaging of items in containers. since there is no properly
defined hangar structure and we use containers, let us repackage
stuff in there! such a massive pain to have to keep dragging
things out and back in.* same goes for reprocessing &
compressing ore.* allow us to drag chat tabs into any order we
want. nothing worse than accidentally ripping a tab out of the chat
window, and then having to rip them all out just to position back in
the same spot.* chat window settings - adding an option to "apply
to all channels", so that font size, portrait size etc are applied to all
windows. * structure advertising boards - when right clicking a
structure and selecting show info, there should be a panel (like
the character bio), where the owner can put any text they like.
this would be great to advertise what rigs/modules are in a
structure, rathar than having to look at the services tab, and in
case of engineering complexes, having to look in the industry tab
for the system and working out what has bonuses to which items.
i heard there were upcoming podcasts interviewing the candidate.
that true?
yeah scylus, why don't you post that schedule?
removed an off topic post.
will you be endorsed by those bee guys again this year or are you
running as an independent candidate?
fair question.due to the math behind ballots and the total amount
of seats being reduced to 10, i will likely only have a symbolic
place on the official goon ballot. it's important for them to get their
people back in so that slots on the ballot that matter are 1-3 and
those slots are going to be reserved for directors and what goons
call "operators". my position on the goon ballot if i am on it at all
will not really contribute to my re-election because run-off is much
lower with only 10 seats.
just like last year, steve has my vote. he runs on a platform few
others do, and he does it with skill. no offense to other
candidates, but there are too many bloc candidates, and they
represent only a small part of eve, nullsec.
im mostly still running to **** off j mclain. ya damn choob.
from cz...
is it possible to see the damage per weapon system graph ?
hiyasome more thoughts for you.1.move the x remove item to the
right of ask price box in the multi sell window. instead of or as well
as to the left of quantity box. so the name of item doesn't get in
the way and can be clicked easier when enlarging regional
average percentages to the right.2.choice to make windows as
transparent as you like so you can have windows open and
choose to see background or not. especially in space where it is
more dangerous.3.would be good if everything you can do right
clicking overlay like align to or warp fleet. could be done on the
plotted route under a route on the left of the screen too.4.to be
able to engage, salvage ,mine or repair using drones by right
clicking on anchored target list.5.to receive a notification when
industry/research jobs you are waiting for are completed.6.to be
able to see fleet members shield,armour and hull hp without
locking on to them. maybe hover over them. mainly for repair
reasons and engagement.
the application period ended on the 17th. did you submit your
application in time?
yes i did.i didnt make a post yet, because straight after handing in
the application. i went on a holiday! just got back last saturday :).
lowsec candidates, yes please :d+1 for white
i like aryth, he is really good with numbers.
as i said a year ago, you can try to convince me your a bad guy
but it wont work
make scanning great again!scanning and finding hidden content
in a system, currently everything shows up in the 'probe scan'
window, it may not be 100% but it showed it was there. the joy of
jumping into a system, and not knowing if you would even find
something is gone.keep the current system as is, but add new
'hidden' content, for those looking for actual adventure, not just
repetition.
thank you all for the posts! btw more info on candidates for your
list (beside myself naturally :) ) can be found at csmwire.
i'm excited! i have been in touch with all the factions. i have
received feedback from 3. i will continue to reach out to ensure
that the desires of each faction is represented in csm.i truly view
this candidacy as a forum to bring our fw, pvp and low sec
interests to the table.i am being interviewed tomorrow (2/22) by
kirith kodachi. i have two podcasts scheduled on 3/5 and one on
3/4.i am waiting to hear back from crossing zebras. they
interviewed me a couple years ago. all my personal data and
some previous fw / low sec experience is in my eve bio.fly
dangerous! former executor templis calsf alliance
still open for questions/comments :)
i believe removing the refit ability for triage and all capitals in
general with an aggression timer was a good idea. second, i think
that lowsec in general can't be prevented from becoming bloc-
dominated, but it can be hard to run huge empires by making
structures that make money stay vulnerable to small entitles, like
moon poses and pocos. i think eve is in a middle zone. it's easier
then ever to be a new player joining the game, and it's definitely
still a veteran's game. this is a fine line however.

to keep voting for steve or not (now that is the real question)so
steve are you going to stand up for keeping the economic
numbers (marketdata) as it is ?or are you going to let some
"goon" with a overactive paranoia whine loud enough so ccp to
takes it away or reduces the accuracy of it ?
i have passed the arguments i've seen, for keeping the data at
the current accuracy, on to ccp. in the end, it's their decision. i can
try and influence it (and now have), but i can't force them.
i was wondering if you wouldn't mind answering some
questions.1. you indicated you ran an alliance before moving to
providence. what type of alliance did you run and why did you
leave/shut it down?2. you lead small ship 20-40 man gangs. have
you ever been involved in entosis warfare, and if so, what are
your thoughts on the subject?3. you indicated that you will
represent all players equally no matter where they come from. it
sounds like most of your experience is in null sec. do you think
you have enough experience to represent other areas of the
game? how much experience do you have in high sec, low sec,
and wormhole space?4. a lot of players, perhaps even a majority,
don't realize the csm even exists. how do you plan on getting
feedback from players?5. did you submit your paperwork to get
on the ballot?
1. you indicated you ran an alliance before moving to providence.
what type of alliance did you run and why did you leave/shut it
down?so at the time it was a mainly industrial alliance, we were
branching out and doing other things. pvp was something we had
started along with our trips into wormholes, if i remember right we
even had a corp that had its own wormhole join us in the last few
weeks of the alliance. sadly the alliance got shut down due to
disagreements with one of the other main corps about getting our
first citadel and the fact i was going to be raising the isk to buy an
astrahus bpo but fell about a billion short the other corp then left
after thinking that they were putting in all the effort as they had
got build materials together, from that point on a lot of us went our
separate ways. some of my corps guys folded in with them and
headed off to volt, others found other homes, i came to provi and
one guy is still keeping the old corp up. i would certainly say that i
was inexperienced at the time, but we also found problems with
the alliance management ui or therefore lack of it. we had been
planning on going it, setting up roles and get everything else we
needed to set up, sadly we never had at our disposal the stuff to
do any of that so we were frantically trying to setup alternatives.2.
you lead small ship 20-40 man gangs. have you ever been
involved in entosis warfare, and if so, what are your thoughts on
the subject?sadly entosis warfare is not something i have been
directly involved in, i've flown in fleets with provi to help defend
systems while the sov-holder does there entosis work. that said, i
have seen both positive and negative attitudes to entosis warfare
and i would say this is certainly one of the areas that is an
example of my willingness to listen to what people have to say, i
don't have great experience so i'm not going to have a bias to one
side or the other.3. you indicated that you will represent all
players equally no matter where they come from. it sounds like
most of your experience is in null sec. do you think you have
enough experience to represent other areas of the game? how
much experience do you have in high sec, low sec, and wormhole
space?recent experience is in null sec, however before that i
spent a lot of time up in high-sec running an industrial lifestyle
along with my alliance that i lead at the time. we also had some
great guys that took us into wormholes for daytrips to run sites
and huff gas. a few times i took some small gangs out into low-
sec to find some fights, sadly where we went it was uncommon to
find people around, however fun was had when we did find them
and i also have some funny stories from when i didn't know the
mechanics all too well ;)4. a lot of players, perhaps even a
majority, don't realize the csm even exists. how do you plan on
getting feedback from players?naturally that is a hard one due to
the fact they don't know it exists. personally i would be making
pushes on as many forms of social media as possible to reach out
to them. also using reddit and the forums. however to get to those
that don't use that stuff, i would personally like to see some
ingame notifications done to some extent. something like "hey the
csm are looking for player feedback on [activity], please help them
out" that way you can try and draw more people into the fold of at
least knowing it exists, from there you can get them
communicating if they hadn't already started.5. did you submit
your paperwork to get on the ballot?yes, i had that issue the first
time where it didn't go through. but huge props to ccp guard for
clearing that up.thank you for the questions :) hope you enjoy the
answers
csm is more like a sounding board or a board made up of interest
organisations without decision power than any political entity. like
office politics, you don't decide by vote.if you think lying is a
wanted part of politics, you're probably unfit for office, and if you
think the csm can decide ccps priorities, you need a reality check.
kind of like cq got, come to think of it.
could not think of a better dude to be on the csm!!
hello everyone,i am super excited to announce that i am running
for csm for the first time ever!my background:i started playing eve
in 2014 after playing dust 514 for 3 months, i started out doing
orbital bombardment in black rise, while running missions and
mining in hi-sec for a passive income.after the announcement of
project legion, i set out to find a new home, thinking dust was
going to die, and bounced between a couple of corps in null sec
space, and back to hi-sec. around the start of 2015 i went back
into calmil, and also became a dj for eve-radio.com (now
gamingnow.net) around the same time! i have been working with
calmil and eve-radio ever since!i also stream eve as well as eve
valkyrie on twitch.tv as much as i can, wrote columns for
evenews24.com, and helped out during the eoc,tv beta!finally, i
am part of the glbta public chat channel, as i am transgender!my
platform:my platform is to help promote 3rd party media related to
eve, weather it is fanfiction, radio, fan sites, or videos, as well
ashelping people in certain demographics, (i.e. the lgbt
community) find channels that they can meet new people in!feel
free to talk to me on twitter @morganskiller if you have any
questions!thanks for reading,morgan
reserved
stay tuned for interview with matteralalso debate this weekend
how did the first interview go? link?
first off, i've known the judge for years now.as far as i remember,
he's always been present for people inside of our alliance or
people outside of our alliance as head diplomat, and so always
been a kind diplomat.more closely, he has ideas and his plans,
always been to enhance peoples gameplay and to keep eve
online at its best.his last career as csm member has shown that
he followed for what he said and continuously brought feedbacks,
presence ideas and to ccp and to its community.he's got all my
votes for the following years.
i was wondering if you would answer some questions.1. you say
you run incursions. do you fly with one of the communities on a
regular basis? also, do you think the payout for incursions is too
high, too low, or just right?2. you say that you've been involved in
factional warfare. which faction and was it more as a plex farmer,
or were you involved in combat?3. it sounds like you have a
separate character for each area of the game you participate in.
do you think that eve requires multiple accounts to play? and do
you think that ccp should cater to those with multiple accounts?4.
you said you have a character in test. were you involved in the
catch war last month? if so, what is your opinion of the current
sov warfare mechanics?
1.) i think the pay out is good, however i do feel that the site
mechanics may be adapted. more improved ai. the hardship in
incursions is getting the fleets organized and enduring the
endless grind.2.) in factional warfare i fought for amarr. this lead
to both combat as well as plexing. i did not find this part of the
game as thrilling as for example null sec warfare or npsi fleets. 3.)
i do not believe that you will need multiple characters to play eve
online. i have played the first 3 years without additional
characters. it was not untill a friend of mine decided to quit and
give me his character that i started multiboxing. however i do
believe that playing the game with more characters really adds
value to the quality of the gameplay. in short i wished i start
multiboxing earlier.ccp should cater people with multiple
accounts, like a staffle discount. first account 100% second
account 95% or something. this way ccp would award loyal
players who have made this game what it is today and reward
players who are looking to invest more time and energy. therefor
convincing more players to create more accounts.4.) i really
dislike the current sov warfare mechanics. ccp changed them
because it was supposed to lead to more interaction and combat.
however i felt (besides the bugs, where timers ran out and then
didnt disappear) that it became more of an endless grind, more
boring then actually the incursion grind. ofcourse my sense of
humor, moves me to say that it was ofcourse because test
alliance is best alliance and nobody opposes us in catch and
esoteria region. extra,i also do believe ccp should allow name
changing. its one of those things that could not only bring in $$$,
but also add more value to the game. for example people who
started out as a joke, then got hooked but stuck with a ****** ass
named character. or people who buy/sell characters and people
who got characters (like me. cause i really do not like the name
adare darmazaf, my test character)1) there should be a name
history involved so people can always track them.2) searching on
character unique id numbers3) name changing should be
expensive so people wouldnt change names every week or
so.more rules could be put up to make sure abuse of this
mechanic would not occur.thank you for your interest rosewalker
:)hopefully this answered some of your questions. if you have
anything else do not hesitate to ask.

erika is smart, thoughtful, knowledgable and enthusiastic about
eve. i believe she would be positive and productive csm member.
i'm planning to give her a vote from all my accounts.
greetings, my name is afropty. i have been playing eve online
since 2008 and would like the opportunity to collaborate with ccp
on improving the game.i am very grateful for my experiences in
eve. it has given me the opportunity to meet many great people
from multiple countries. many have helped me to get a greater
understanding of the game, and i have developed some great
friendships in the process.the most challenging part for me is that
communication in eve is predominately in english, and i am
chilean. i have learned to play by the teachings of my fellows in
english.i would like to improve the game for spanish speaking
players. i have come to realize that there are many others like me
who speak spanish primarily, which is cool.eve online is a big
interactive game community and i would like to be part of the team
making this game better for everyone.i hereby offer myself as a
candidate for csm, and humbly ask for your support.worklist
program:ship rebalanceimprove the currently navegation
mechanicsingame applicationbattle reportsreview moon mining
mechanicsyou can contact me ingame or on forums
you got my vote afrop!
                                                                    1
+1!
rawwwr afropty!
                                                                    1
bump, make deklien great again.
                                                                    1
dear god...
ya era hora \o/
                                                                    1
                                                                    1
+1de hecho! al fin contento optimizado por lor castellanos!
im not spanish but when hes around i feel spanish, all the votes
go to you good sir!
my name is zomgnomnom and i support this message.
got my vote +1
no hay impuestos sin representaci<U+FFFD>n
+1 the north speaks!
+1you will have my vote, sweet chilien prince!
afropty is gonna build a wall around deklein and pl is gonna pay
for it
                                                                    1
                                                                    1
did you fill out the application form and submit a photocopy of
your passport to ccp?
edited - 23/02/2017.
excuse me - cause im pretty new in all that csm stuff;do you have
already prepare ideas for the points what u described or it's like"if
you choose me ill take care about it and figure it out something";?
hey naye,thanks for your query. i do already have a few ideas
written down from the dot points that i mention in my main post.
some ideas are still a work-in-progress. of course, there will be
more ideas to come in the future and i am always open to ideas
from the player community. as the csm are meant to be a bridge
between the community and ccp, i feel that a lot of these ideas
would need to be discussed with ccp first before coming up with a
solid plan to tackle the improvements or feedback suggested by
players. some ideas suggested by players might already be
something that ccp is working on, so there is a possibility that
there is a working plan in place for some of these ideas. as a csm
i cannot promise to "take care of things" for you, but i will do my
very best to allow your voice to be heard by ccp.thanks,viktor
introductionwelcome prospective disciples of the rorqual. while i
normally would begin with a lengthy sermon as to why the rorqual
is the finest ship in eve and that all capsuleers should aspire to fly
one, i'm pretty late in posting this as it is! first, think about these
questions:are you satisfied with flying a single ishtar for your dank
ratting ticks or do you find it necessary to afk five of them on all
the havens in the system? do you hate hisec incursion community
voice comms so much that you have or will build an incursion fleet
to clear sites all by yourself? do you believe proper 'solo pvp' is
baiting svipuls into medium plexes where your five recon alts are
happily orbiting the beacon? do you like to drop 10 or more
bombers on hapless provi ratters or afk freighter pilots? do you
believe that unless you're making more than 1bn isk/hr you're
playing like a casual? if your answer to any of the above
questions are yes or at least maybe, keep reading.platformdo you
enjoy multiboxing? i do. a lot. and there have been a lot of
changes and new restrictions on multiboxing over the past few
years - such as no broadcasting and partial window overlays.
some of these changes are fair and i have zero intent on trying to
change the current eula. however, there is a stigma that
sometimes comes to multiboxers - a belief that they may be
botting or skirting the rules. suicide gank multibox pilots getting
banned for nebulous reasons. who on the csm have stood for and
defended multiboxers? how many times was multiboxing
referenced in the last csm summit? well, if you vote for me, i'll
stand for you!about mei started out in e-uni doing the normal new
player things and eventually joined mercenary coalition to
participate in my first large scale conflict since starting to play eve.
but it wasn't enough just being a single dps or logistics pilot in
fleets. i needed to do more. whether this was bringing in alt links,
spreading out cynos, readying a capital alt - i wanted to do more
than just f1. it was around the middle of last year i saw a post on
r/eve claiming that you could make 1.2b an hour multiboxing
vanguard sites. welp, here i am doing that and a bunch of other
things with far too many accounts. i've done region-wide cloaky
camping and salt mining, ice-belt clearing in one and a half hours
mining (praise the rorqual!), infuriating griffin swarms, 165 p0-p2
planets (yeah, that only lasted a month), and dropping 10
bombers on 'snakes. i've got a few more things in the cooker as
well (the kusions can't have all the fun). i've also been involved
with our alliance tournament team in addition to shooting stuff for
profit, building api tools using xml through esi (happy to share if
requested), promoting mining cultural revolutions, and battled the
menace that is ess drama. so while i can hold the door on
negative impacts to multiboxing, i also have enough experience to
discuss other aspects of the game and relate back to the
playerbase.why i stand outthere are a lot of big names on the
ballot and four fewer spots to fill - i get it, i've got my work cut out
for me. however, if you consider my platform and my
accomplishments, some things stand out: organizational
capability, exposure to a wide range of eve, and unadulterated
efficiency. i feel these are strong attributes of an effective csm
member. and if you've been paying attention, i have a ton of
bloody characters. i'm pretty damn invested in this game, so it's in
my great interest to see it continue to grow and continue to be
engaging. this is why i am running for csm and why you should
vote for me.thank you for reading!(side note: late thread posting,
the application was submitted within the deadline)contactreddit -
elowenn (preferred)discord - solidus#1465 (personal channel for
csm:

reserved as that's the thing to do. /avoids reserving 10 times per
habit.
solidus may be a carebear scrublord, but he's our lovable
scrublord.you have my axe...and my vote.
so key braodcasting isnt likely to return. as it opens up a can of
worms for botting and non human controlled input. what are your
throughts on this.also i run 4 accounts in incursions with no
isboxer or anything. its easy enough to do without it.
+1 endorsement
yeah, input broadcasting is very close to botting, albeit some
mmos allow it currently (wow to my knowledge is one of them). i
don't intend to advocate for change on that particular aspect.
there are methods out there to quickly and efficiently perform
actions on multiple clients legally (eve-o preview, a hotkey that
opens the next window) - but the concern i have is that ccp
reviews this activity server side rather than client side. what
happens when a multiboxer gets good enough to get those inputs
in on a single or two-tick cycle? this is what i want to look at
further.
so i run 4 of 10 accounts in an incursion. now its muscle memory
at this point but its also fair. with scroll time and that i rarely if ever
have actions effect more than 1 account per second i think or i
believe their system would be smart enough to see broadcasting
happen serverside as its not easy to hit for instance vanguard
incursions 10 accounts in the same 2 second window.. i run 4
screens and move the cursor between them doing everything
manualy. i feel that this is fair as it falls in the eula as fair game to
do. due to the past controversy over isboxer and key broadcasting
what makes you think ccp would be amenable to this change
considering the long term bans people have recieved over it
currently? should these people have their accounts reactivated
retroactively?
somehow i double-posted
have you filled out the application form and submitted a
photocopy of your passport to ccp?
fact is you were probably not around in eves early years.fact is
eve grew fastest in the ovuer years and tapered off and then
declined after that fact is for years ccp falcon and others have not
understood why, how and what eve was designed as, and so
have never understood why it was initially successful and why it
then stagnated when it veered off course.likelihood is given its
early success, something relatively rare for mmos launched by
small independents, it should have continued to grow, even if that
growth was modest but it didnt. in business thats called success,
declining is called failure.the fact that is most appropriate and
important in terms of your quote above is eve grew fastest at the
time when the devs actively discouraged and denounced
ganking, and that was in the first critical years of eve while ovuer,
the original lead dev and the person most responsible for it
becoming a reality was at the helm. ovuer link on ganking
you clutch to that quote like an orphan might to the last remaining
photograph of their long deceased parents, who gazes longingly
at it remembering better times that really only exist in their mind. if
you put that quote into a search engine, it is apparent that you
have trotted it out multiple times over the years to make a point
that simply isn't true. first, it doesn't mean what you think it
means. oveur said "not easily" for design intention of "pirating". he
didn't say that all highsec violence should be "impossible" or
something like that. well, pirating is not easy in highsec. almost all
transport goes unmolested in highsec, and only a small number of
players even attempt it. ccp spent years after that quote nerfing
highsec piracy by removing insurance, buffing hulls and concord
and the like to make highsec a hard place to be a pirate. second,
over the years multiple ccp devs have confirmed that suicide
ganking and a not 100% safe highsec is working as intended. i've
linked some in this thread already, but you also can find
examples in the minutes (p. 59) or this devblog detailing changes
to suicide ganking which specifically says they want players to be
able to shoot each other in highsec. heck, if you go through those
search results you'll even see your beloved ccp oveur use
phrases like "you can pvp anywhere, as long as you take the
consequences". you are denying the undeniable: ccp wants non-
consensual pvp to be possible in highsec and ccp intends for it
not to be 100% safe. this has always been the case, since eve
was just in the conceptual stage, all through to today. i don't know
why or how you have constructed this alternate reality in your
head which claims that for some reason, ccp has been unable to
make highsec safe after all these years even though they really
want it to be, or that ccp oveur had some divine claim to the
development of eve online and was doing his best to make
highsec 100% safe but was usurped by ccp falcon and his htfu
crew, but you are completely mistaken. actually, probably more
like completely deluded. your alternate history is utterly false, and
requires leaps of faith and in logic so large, it would do the most
rabid conspiracy theorist credit. seriously, your bemoaning the
fact the eve online isn't what you want it to be serves no one. eve
is what it is, and that unambiguously includes an unsafe highsec
where you are indeed at risk to other players. and it always has,
even back in oveur's days. in fact, since oveur left, highsec has
only been made safer, year after year, buff after buff, and that has
correlated with less logins, less activity and less content in
highsec and in the rest of new eden. i shudder to think what would
happen if in your alternative universe a ccp oveur was still a lead
developer and was given free reign to implement the carebear
paradise you accuse him of wanting. the servers probably would
have been shut off years ago. good thing this is all just in your
head.
but it isn't just in ziona's head. the attempts to make hs safer and
safer. answering the call of the carebears to nerf wars, nerf
ganking is indeed a thing. of course ccp does it and it never works
out. that is why we keep hearing the whine for more nerfs.
i have for the last while been dealing with a lag producing
problem. that is the in station advertisments are such that they do
produce lag to a point i can not access my containers to place or
retrieve items i need. i have a low end laptop using intergrated
graphics and it literally has to be able to over come this by some
means.so there fore my proposal is this;that we should have the
option made available to turn off the advertising especially on
lower end systems as mine is.there should be a method through
the menu to do this like you can with the dynamic camera which i
turned off as a result of the lag as well when changing ships.
there is no need to create an environment that would force me to
upgrade to a high performance system because of this.who ever
is responsible for this needs to go and see what can be done to
introduce a method to turn those off and release it to tq. makes for
a qol improvement.thank you.
eve prosper mention of official endorcement again last night on
the live stream. available on playback via eve prosper yourube or
twitch channels
new content:an interview in german on evepodcast.de:
scylus has built ccdm from a 50 man single corp into the biggest
fw alliance in a **** militia.the man knows his stuff. got my vote for
sure.
even though i haven't known scylus that long, he is a clear
forerunner in the fw space. with templis running solidly in the
warzone under his command, i think he is the clear choice to
represent the lowsec space. he has been in the area for a long
time and understands the dynamic changes that the global
changes have made to our sectors.+1 for scylus.
short friendly interview i did with scylus about his csm run this
evening.
so now that you're being evicted are you going to mjd out of your
csm campaign?
thank you so much mynxee, that means a lot to me!
                                                                     1
just curious, are you involved in any of the debates i heard are
upcoming?
yes, i will be in one of the ones that are being hosted by jeff/rhivre
on the 5th of march. also just completed an interview with
matterall.
it depends really - when you use a lot of accounts you want to be
efficient. as long as you're not broadcasting, you can still get
"good" enough to get multiple character actions out per tick. i
would be able to bring these perspectives to ccp in a more direct
fashion as part of the csm. ultimately it is up to ccp to enforce their
eula but if they were to review borderline cases and understand
what could be done, legally, they could reconsider their choices.
csms can only advocate and that would be my plan. :)
why are we terrible pubbies.
of course its in my head - where else would it be. i have first hand
knowledge and experience of eve from its inception to launch
over every change and expansion. do you?oveurs post is trotted
out whenever i read nonesense like your post. you are either
deliberately misleading or ignorantly misleading people on the
forums with crap like that.the post states a number of things and
its from the ultimate source, the lead and original eve
developer.see next post for details
oveurs post:1: piracy / ganking in high sec should be difficult - its
absurdly easy 2: highsec is supposed to be relatively safe
(compared to low null) its currently the most dangerous space for
various reasons. oveur bolded this to emphasize it.3: he states
you should need to go to low null for non-consensual pvp.fact is
pvp in eve was always supposed to be non-consensual. war decs
were put into game to allow for pvp in high sec. risk was
supposed to be high especially in high sec, low risk concord
protected easy ganking with low cost ships is an abberation from
the intended high risk designed pvp.now things have changed no
doubt, we have new devs who have lost or never understood the
hardcore philosophy of original eve however if you try to claim it
was always easy and the design was always the way it is now ill
post oveurs statement again to show you're full of it
piracy, as a profession is almost impossible in highsec. either we
are looking at a different set of facts, or you have an
unconventional use of the term. the only thing you can make a
profit shooting in highsec is haulers that another player has
chosen to put too much value into. mining ships, even the most
undertanked ones, do not drop enough to allow the suicide
ganker to make a living. maybe they can cover the costs in the
best case scooping their own wreck, but there is no isk for a
pirate there. and the tanked ones? it can take a dozen players
and 100m+ isk loss in ships to shoot it, what all for 10m isk in loot
drops? mission ships are even more safe, and usually have the
protection of a mission gate that makes them 100% safe in there
from outlaws. haulers are the only thing that can be shot for
piracy, simply because the player gets to determine how much to
put in there. no matter how high ccp sets the costs to attack, the
hauler can put more goods in the ship thus making themselves a
profitable target for the pirate. however, ccp has raised the cost to
attack over and over again, leaving quite a generous window for
haulers to operate. it takes dozens of players and hundreds of
millions in ships to even attempt an attack on a freighter which
can yield nothing if the attack is thwarted by the hauler or her
friends, or if the loot fairy is unkind. i can get that someone might
claim that suicide ganking isn't hard enough, because, hey, why
not complain that the other guy has it too easy? whining is easy
and cheap, certainly less difficult than actually playing the game.
therefore, i can easily just write you off as 'uninformed' or,
perhaps more likely in your case, a person with an agenda to
make highsec 100% safe because you have brought too much of
your real-world persona and morals into a spaceship shooting
video game. what i can't get is how you constructed a narrative in
your head that highsec piracy is somehow easier than it used to
be in oveur's time and that is hurting the game somehow. back in
that era, ships were flimsier, concord took much longer to arrive,
and even if you failed a suicide gank, the silly people at pend
insurance would reimburse a large fraction of the cost of your
ship. at times, you could make a living as a 'pirate' just suiciding
your battleship into the side of a station because the insurance
payout was higher than the cost of the ship. the reality is
mechanically, highsec has never been safer. this is undeniable.
there have been dozens of changes, both direct and indirect to
highsec piracy, and with only a few exceptions, they have all gone
in the same direction: they nerfed it and made it harder, just like
oveur said ccp intends. and it has worked. most people in highsec
have nothing to fear from a pirate - the costs to attack are so high
there is zero profit to be had in the majority of cases. the only
reason highsec piracy happens at all is that haulers, especially
the most imprudent of them, have adjusted to each increase in
safety by hauling more stuff, and there are just so many of players
in general attracted by the safety highsec generally offers. all the
reasonable metrics (like the ones ccp quant provides) say that
highsec is indeed, the safest space as ccp intends. you have the
least chance of losing your ships there by an order or two of
magnitude when compared to the other spaces where there is no,
or very little cost to attack another player. but as to your point 3,
nowhere does he say "you should need to go to low null for non-
consensual pvp". all he says is you should go to low/null if you
want to be a pirate, aka make a living from shooting other
people's spaceships. if ccp wanted highsec to be free of non-
consensual pvp, they could do it tomorrow with a single line of
code preventing us from using the red safety setting. further, wars
are are a significant source of non-consensual pvp (at least at the
group level) which have been there since oveur's time. this idea of
yours that ccp, or a favoured developer of yours at ccp, wants or
wanted a 100% safe, non-consensual pvp-free, highsec is
bullocks. this was never the case and never will be the case. it is
just something you want so much for your own personal reasons
it is clouding your interpretation of reality.

its clear from the screenshot hes replying to someone whinging
about concord being beefed up - hes clearly referring to ganking i
back when concord was vastly weaker than it is now. and yet,
here we are with yet another whine..."just one more nerf and all
will be well."never mind that players logged in are declining.subs,
which are most likely correlated with players logged in are
probably also declining.yes, ccp has been clever about
monetizing the remaining player base...which ironically leads to
more whining about pay to win, usually from the likes of
you.might there have been justification for buffing concord back
then? maybe. but this is now, not then. so trying to use an
argument from over a decade ago would be like arguing that
because we were in a deep recession 7 years ago, we should
pursue counter cyclical economic policies now. it is just stupid an
nothing more than an argument from an out-dated authority who
probably knows nothing about where the game is now.and
seriously, i am so sick of people whining about suicide ganking. it
only works now because some moron puts too much stuff in his
freighter turning it into a loot pinata. how stupid does one be to
put 7 billion into an anti-tanked ship that can be taken down by 15
players in 150 million isk worth of ships? pretty goddamned
stupid. you know what happens with stupid people? the rest of us
have to clean up after them. i have zero sympathy for a dumbass
that turns his ship into a loot pinata. none. they were stupid and
they were taught a lesson. if they don't like the consequences of
their stupidity, well too bad for them.and spare me the
consequences for the gankers. they paid the consequences for
their actions. their ships were destroyed. yes, an alt or buddy
scooped the loot and in the end they profited...but only because
some other moron was too stupid to realize he was creating a
suicide ganking opportunity.seriously. grow up. take responsibility
for your actions. stop wanting others to do what you need to do for
yourself. goddamn child.
i dont lose sleep over ganking either im simply refuting dark
pedros incorrect statement that ganking was intended and
encoragedearly on in eve. devs didnt like it and they initially
worked hard to reduce it.
who gives a **** if it was intended or not. eve is a game of
emergence or spontaneous order--i.e. we will get things nobody
intended. that is the goddamned point of the game. to get things
nobody intends.did ccp intend pipe bombs? probably not. did they
intend the "false pos" probably not. did they intend rental
empires? did they intend something like red frog? did they intend
coalitions? there are lots of things in game that ccp did not
intend...that is the nature of the game.so your observation is
pretty useless...kind of like you.
let me ask this...did ccp intend for the rise of professional
freighter ganking organizations? well with all their nerfing that is
what those dingbats got. whether they intended it or not.here is a
hint for dimbulbs like you: when you have a system of
spontaneous order and emergence...trying to control it, to direct
it...it often blows up in your face.edit: unless you control it so
much you throttle the life out of it...which, look ccp seems to be
doing a fine job.ccp employees should come into work every day
and look at eve offline. then spend 2 hours on their resumes, then
do their days work. they are busy working on putting themselves
out of work.
it was misinformation. why make **** up?
my point is: who cares? whether it was intended or not...it is what
they got with an open classless system with few rules--i.e. a
sandbox.so maybe they thought it was a bit too much or too easy
and they ratcheted up the difficult level...no need to take it past 11
and break the goddamn game. hs content sucks. pve is boring. hs
pvp is all but gone. mass war decs and freighter ganking and a
band of terrorists being subsidized to attack miners. that's it.
oveur clearly uses the term "piracy". even if you interpret his use
of piracy to mean all non-consensual pvp, he says ccp intends for
piracy to be "not easy" in highsec. he didn't say "impossible" or
"not allowed" or whatever you seem to be interpreting that as. ccp
has always intended for pvp, both consensual and non-
consensual, to be possible in highsec, as long as you accept the
consequences. that has always been how it works and how it was
intended to work. your version of reality does not exist. feel free to
make the case that non-consensual pvp is currently "too easy" in
highsec, but claiming that highsec was intended to be 100% free
of non-consensual pvp, even by your beloved ccp oveur, is a
pure fabrication of yours.
got my support. thank you for the convo last night
scylus black numbah one!
i was wondering if you would answer a couple of questions.1. i
get the impression you are an fc. what type of fleets do you like to
take out?2. your alliance currently lives in malpais. do you do a
lot of mining and industry?3. you would like ccp to address moon
goo. is that from personal experience moon mining and/or running
reaction farms, or due to something else?4. what are the things
about citadels that you would like to see changed?5. living in
malpais you are surrounded by the brothers of tangra, a rental
alliance. what are your thoughts on rental empires?
hmmm nah
while it is nice seeing somebody running on a faction warfare
platform, i don't believe you are the best candidate for this, simply
because of your attitude in game. today there was a fight between
siege green and dhsj, and even after your fc called good fight and
"content is content" you instead resorted to wishing the other side
contracted aids, and wished that that would get hit and maimed
by a bus.
um can u not copy me
such abhorrent behavior should not be tolerated, more so from a
csm candidate. if you are so easily angered by someone calling
out a welp that you would resort to wanting physical harm inflicted
upon him, how can we as a community trust your decisions to do
right by the community? you will not have my vote and i will
campaign so that others also reject your submission.
g'day everyone!if you're interested in hearing my aussie accent
and getting to know a bit more about me, then feel free to have a
listen to the talking in stations podcast interview hosted by
materrall. here is a link to the my interview;
please explain your ideas around improvements to war dec
mechanics.
hey natural clonekiller,thanks for your query :-)there have been
many suggestions brought to me in regards to making
improvements to war dec mechanices. a lot of these suggestions
would require further investigation, but i can let you know of one
idea that has been suggested to me.there could be a way for a
corporation to pay a fee to concord in order to have their war dec
removed early or to prevent it from happening. this would please
a lot of those smaller corps who get war dec and don't really
engage in warfare. it really hurts the game in general if people
just go offline for two weeks because they are war dec, opposed
to giving them an opportunity to continue playing by offering a
system to pay off the war dec. i realize that there will be people
who are on the other side of this argument who enjoy using the
current war dec mechanic. and i am open to suggestions from
those people who have ideas for war dec mechanics. that's just
one of the suggestions that has been brought to me. of course it's
not going to be a simple process, but i just wanted to respond to
your query with an example.thanks for your time,viktor koraka

meine stimme hast du! prima welche dinge du angehen willst!
i was wondering if you could answer some questions.1) what area
of the game do you play?2) do you pvp, or are you more industry
focused?3) you mentioned something called the "eve an hour"
campaign. what is that for those like me who have never heard of
it before? and is it still active? your mention of it leaves a lot of
questions.4) have you ever been in a corp or alliance leadership
position? if so, what challenges do/did face that ccp could help
with by changing features in the game?
1. not many. the most complex tool i released was skynet, which
was the first fleet manager made using the crest fleet endpoints.
it primarily provided a more user friendly overview of the data
available in the in-game fleet composition window, but complaints
about the limitations imposed by the api endpoints on ccp's side
and a general lack of interest caused me to stop active
development, and further versions weren't publicly released.on
the bright side, i heard that several people found my code useful
as a guide to using the fleet endpoints, which were
undocumented at the time (though i did manage to write up the
documentation eventually), and proceeded to make fleet
managers/assistants of their own.moving on to simpler tools i
made this lp store browser, which pulls its data live from tq, and
this structure browser which is just a quick thing i made for
checking when your citadel runs out of fuel.other than that, all
other tools i made are for internal use only, for now.2. i
maintained interest, but as my corp already has many people
involved in those activities, i stopped participating in them as to
leave me with more time for other activities and them with less
competition :)3. there are a lot of provibloc candidates this year,
and i'm really glad to see them getting involved. what sets me
apart from them? i'm more focused on the information
management in eve than some specific areas. you could say that
it's what really drives the game, and all the spaceship violence is
just a fortunate side effect of it. aside from that, i'd say most of us
provi candidates are similarly aligned with respect to eve's more
tangible issues.4. i consider the in-game map to be the worst
offender here, as it offers tons of free intel on every k-space
system. however, information blackout is currently the domain of
w-space, and that intel is relied on by many people, so any
changes or removal of it would be a rather complicated matter.as
i said in my blog, knowing when to stop with the amount of
information available over apis is important, and i also take issue
with various game mechanics which leak information (convo
someone to check if they're online, for example).5. i'm fairly
satisfied with the progress so far. integrating the documentation
process into the development process is by far the biggest
improvement, and the architecture changes should allow for
better performance and introduction of features which used to be
impossible.while ccp is making progress on it faster than i
expected, it is still coming along very slowly, and reliability issues
are preventing some people from switching to esi.6. discord/slack
bots and the such.
well thank you for stopping by my thread...not really sure i
understood what you were getting at here. of course making it fun
for high sec players is a very important thing... i do not agree with
you there. but then i have written about that on previous posts
and my blog.there is a long thread on the eve forums about
bumping... have you read it?as you quite rightly say, i was indeed
quite right.there are many things that one could change in war
decs to make the system more workable... changing the relations
between allies is one of them... especially with the large number
of small corporations that might have to band together (as if that
would ever happen)... the population of high sec will probably
never change in this respect. i think that we are still in the
relatively early days of citadels... but over the years i expect we
will reach some sort of equilibrium... thanks for taking the time to
write.
1. i get the impression you are an fc. what type of fleets do you
like to take out?i can fc, but smaller groups. i prefer alpha boats,
or rlml swarms at present. i much prefer to sit and wait for roams
to come to me than go out looking for fights (you surprisingly get
more fights some days :) )2. your alliance currently lives in
malpais. do you do a lot of mining and industry?yes, fusion has
had a strong industrial past, but we have decent level of pvper to
protect our industry. we used to do a lot of mining, but the rorqual
changes have polarised many miners into its either rorqual or
nothing, and with the speed wh gangs are rolling wh while hunting
for rorquals, it has put a lot of miners off even bothering to
undock. 3. you would like ccp to address moon goo. is that from
personal experience moon mining and/or running reaction farms,
or due to something else?in the past our corp has had money
moons, at the peak, 11 tech moons when tech was 220k pu.... the
problem with goo moons is, either you get them handed to you, or
its not isk worth trying to take them from others. the usual fight
over a goo tower will cost 20b+ in order to take the moon, which
is multiple months roi, making it kinda pointless attacking it in the
first place. if you have the towers, odds are, your not going to lose
the income from them.i would like to see goo moved off of moons,
and moved to anomalies that spawn like data sites/ gas sites. in
order to keep the present levels, you would need to have 2 or 3
sites per moon of goo spawn, with 3 or 4 days worth of goo to
harvest. also having a site spawn elsewhere once one is deleted
would remove the dowmtime rush. gas mining would make it
more accessible to everyone. it would also help move some
miners from ore to goo hunting, and it would encourage full use of
all systems in regions with people looking for the goo sites. 4.
what are the things about citadels that you would like to see
changed?main thing would be the anchoring 'exploit' people are
using at present inorder to get 21 days invul after first anchoring
it. second thing would be the ability to have an overview when
viewing outside... if you presently stick your head out of some
structures, you really cannot see anything smaller than a capital.
5. living in malpais you are surrounded by the brothers of tangra,
a rental alliance. what are your thoughts on rental empires?rental
empires are both good and bad. they give the opportunity for
small industrial/pve corps to try out null without joining a big
blocdownside is they fund the big alliances to get bigger, making
it harder for new people to the scene to take space.
does my reddit shitposting also countshitposting is shitposting
famalso just fyi that convo calls that guy out for something
unrelated
i had a really nice chat with matterall for the talking in stations
podcast, my first interview ever.check it out here:
how wouldn't be horde without kalibur.
nice resume, simple questions for youhow much do you answer to
the upper ranks of pl and others and how much are you your
'own'. will you expect to continue to be able to do the good work
you do fi csm takes a fair share of your time or have you
considered handing off responsibilities?mmike azariah ----
<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>

i've been lucky enough to catch both ashterothi (from crossing
zebras) and matterall (from imperium news network). if you'd like
to listen to some more casual discussion from me, take a listen!
pve landing pads.say you are sent out on a delivery by your
favorite agent, instead of going thru the entire docking sequence
and such, make landing pads on/around the stations. players can
select the station and click on the 'landing pad' to have the ship
war (if at range) and automatically begin landing on an available
pad. after some time has passed, the delivery shows as complete,
and you can 'depart' the landing pad and be on your mary way. if
all landing pads are busy, then you can just do a normal "dock"
into the station and continue as normal.this option could also be
used when delivering/picking up contracts from players.
i will be hosting a ustz and an eutz ama on reddit this week, i will
see if there's a way i can do au/rutz as well, but that's pretty hard
for me because of being 12 hours apart. if there's any au/rutz
people who want to contact me, you can feel free to contact me in
game @jonn duune
removed an off-topic post.
might have some questions for your ama. just wondering when
you're gonna have it, so do you have a date and time or
something? don't really like any of the other wh candidates i've
seen so far.
having flown with this pilot before his community statement would
be more accurate if it were this:i support the community when it
has the same views as myself, if someone has differing views to
my own i will go out of my way to berate, speak over, down to and
make personal threats against those other line members
due to various personal threats made by this pilot i wish to state
that a vote for this candidate will do nothing but further damage
the public brand image of the csm. while stellan is a very
passionate and enthusiastic player, these types of people should
not be considered for csm members.

i recognise that there has been issues in the past, and
i<U+FFFD>ll admit my doing then. i apologise for the issues.
there<U+FFFD>s been water under the bridge since.
i'm not sure that's only for you to decide. you mention several
community structures in your op. i agree that the community is
what makes this game so great. does community and working
together go so far as trying to white knight a corp or leaking apis
when you don't get your way? i recognize that these actions and
many others are completely valid and acceptable forms of eve
gameplay, but they're hardly actions that would promote and
encourage discussion and/or change for good wouldn't you think?
how would this translate to being an effective voice within the
csm?
please note, this is not a troll post, this is purely a clarification of
facts.you made personal threats against other players (indicating
physical harm out of game). this is not a quality trait of someone
who should be considered a representative of the community and
the community should be aware of this.
+1you'll always have my vote, keep those reforms coming.
well here i am, ive been playing eve since october 2008. ive
literally been to every corner of the game and have been in almost
every major conflict since i started. i'm running for csm cause i
believe i know what the players want, i think i know enough
players from all facets of eve, and have made enough friends to
have a good knowledge of what the players want. so anyways
figured id throw my hat in the ring and see what hapened.
ever heard of world war bee(wwb)?killah bee was essentially the
project manager for such a feat tasked to coordinate dozens of
entities totaling over 40,000 characters to engage a similar sized
entrenched foe. not only did killah bee display great team
management skills, he also surpassed all communication
expectations effectively coordinating advanced war tactics
through multiple time zones in various languages.killah bee is well
cultured in the eve universe having acquired experience in many
different disciplines. voting killah bee onto the csm would not only
benefit every pilot in eve but it would also benefit the csm. every
csm member is expected to communicate with the panel and ccp.
with an effective communicator and natural leader such as killah
bee on the panel, progress is sure to be made.if you support
killah bee's platform, be sure to cast a vote his direction. rest
assured these causes will be carefully prepared and adequately
delivered.
dancul deserves more visibility for the platform he is running on.
definitely a solid candidate for all of eve.
the thing you've described is just another symptom. the disease is
a csm itself.
added youtube link for matterall interview.
having known jin since he were a podling, it has been a pleasure
to see him grow and develop into the great young fella he is
today.he has demonstrated that he can bring consistancy and
transparancy where possible to not just the csm but also to the
relationship between the csm and ccp. he has also evidenced
what he has done and where he has helped to make an impact in
the game.thus he will certainly get my vote.with respectmaxoh,
and i may be the one responsible for introducing him to tequila
and whisky chasers. i would say can you remember the notts
meet but we know how that ended for you.bad max.. bad !
approved candidacy by ccp for the 4th year. check the full list
lorelei, you have a 100% chance of walking away from most
ganks - if you're prepared to take some precautions and to use
the tools with which ccp has provided you.if you're implying that
ganking is too easy (i.e. needs to be nerfed), then you should
really come out and say so, citing whatever evidence you can
produce (i think you'll struggle there, to be frank).i think you might
more usefully describe yourself as the highsec carebearing
candidate, and have done with it. you obviously won't be able
honestly to represent the pvpers and pirates who daily bring
content to the region.i'm working my way down the list of
candidates, hoping that someone from highsec will take on the
challenging task of stopping the drip-drip-drip of nerfs to our
playstyle and get those carebears actually involved in the game.
it's an mmo, not a multi-single-player-online rpg.but i realise that
expecting a lone candidate to represent the interests of such a
broad constituency may be just too much.
thanks for stopping by my thread, sasha. i've listened to several of
you recordings. i think they are nice.i don't think ganking is too
easy. did you read the discussions at the time in my last two
campaign threads? i think what i think was quite well talked
about...did you see my post about my ideas for concord
adjustments? 2015/08/concord.html what do you think about what
i said in my opening post about making changes to local chat?i do
(for example) definitely think that just adding more ehp to mining
barges is not the right way to go about adjusting things.really? i
think i could represent pvpers and pirates. of course, more pvp
and pirate oriented players would have to tell me what they
think/feel... but that is what communication would be for. if i were
to be elected i would be spending more time talking to people and
less time flying around niarja. what do you think pvpers an pirates
want? and what do you think a member of the csm can actually
do?getting carebears more involved in the game would be a great
thing, and that is why it is important for ccp to keep tweaking and
developing the npe. i would be very interested to see information
about where in the npe the majority of "new" players stop and quit
eve (see summit minutes). last year your alliance supported
xenuria. probably you will be doing it again. that is not necessarily
a bad thing... just not a high sec thing.i know. i do not think i ever
said anything about wanting to make solo-play easier. i am also in
favour of increasing the possibilities to be social and interact with
other players - and my thoughts about social player corporations
have not changed over the last couple of years.noone can do
everything. but high sec needs voices, and high sec is worth
fighting for!

serves me right for being lazy / pushed for time...i was called out
about wardecs. i do not know much about war deccing, not really
having done it in any great way... but i am aware that war dec in
high sec and also the bounty mechanics are very much broken...
so much so that war decs just do not impact my play in any way...
in case of dec drop corps and reform.... or wait it out. in fact in my
original campaign war decs were #4 on "the list""4) wardecs.the
war dec mechanic is broken. there have already been
talks/suggestions about enabling player groups that are not
eligible for "war deccing" but also not eligible to put up pos or
pocos.... this is a central theme to new player retention, and not to
be ignored. i am also quite prepared to represent/push issues that
other high sec carebears have, even if i have not mentioned them
above. i think it is all-important that high sec gathers behind a
candidate... (even if it is not me) so that our interests do not get
swept under the table by the massed/organised nullsec
coalitions."
very excited! just got word that i am on the ballot. thank you all for
getting in the mix. i still have more podcasts coming up. talking in
stations lounge - scylus black former executor templis calsf
alliance
+++
a couple of questions,-capital ships size are wrong, any fix for
them? ( force auxiliary are too big, carriers are too small ).-ship
bumping mechanics are so weird, a frig can bump a titan, any
change or modification?-spanish language support?good luck ncc
1709 o7
language support, well that's in ccp's best interest to arrange for
as many languages as possible. but unlike most other games,
eve contains thousands of words, a large selection of which are
not easily translatable to multiple languages. what i would like to
see integrated into the in-game chat's would be the option to
translate a section of a chat window by highlighting and right click.
ship sizes have been off for many years. the most obvious
example of this is the macherial. i believe it is still in the original
size scale of most ships before their re-render size reduction.it
would be nice to see them all re-sized relative to their 'list size',
which would cause most ships to be reduced in size rather than
increased. bumping, that's a different kettle of fish. the mass ratio
of capitals relative to their size is too low. if a capital has speed, it
should shrug off a bump from a lower mass ship with ease, but
due to the squiffy mass equations used, the capital ships tend to
react to the bump when the bump should be a smear on the
windscreen. while it would be nice to see some effort put into
fixing this, i dont see it making much difference to bumping within
eve its self. if it requires more people to bumps, them more
people will be used.if collision damage is added, then the odds
are it would be abused in some unforseen way. but i would still
like to see collision mechanics fixed
with any luck, i'm going to do 2, i'm thinking an eutz one sometime
around 1800-1900 on wednesday, and a ustz one around 0100 on
saturday. but because of my propensity to bring out salt, i'm going
to ask the reddit mods to be present and strictly moderating any
offtopic threads.
i've had a few questions rolling around in my head for quite a
while. with c4 site payouts failing to match the isk/hr of c3 sites,
as well as access to k-space being limited by statics, what is your
proposition for bringing c4 sites in line with the difficulty of their
pve content? i know that the obvious answer is to grab a c4 with a
3 or a 5 as a static (maybe even both! got one of these a few days
ago), and just run sites in there for smoother isk/hr, but this
leaves a large portion of c4 space with very poor options for
making isk. long, uncomfortable chains are inevitable in
wormholes, but are especially prevalent in c4 highways where the
only residents are russians doing pi. lifting the amount of available
isk in c4's will go a long way towards encouraging residency in
the "deeper" wormholes without kspace statics. for now, c2
wormholes remain the most desired for their access to k and
jspace, the kind of flexibility that only this class of wormhole
offers. i think this is creating a poor environment for wspace,
leaning towards an increase in evictions as opposed to residents.
nothing wrong with evictions, but when one of the perceived
issues in wspace is a lack of content and population, it wouldn't
hurt to begin slowly increasing the incentives for c4 residents.
denizens of middle-class wormholes live in a frustrating
environment, but i think the answer is to give them a bit more
reward rather than alter the dynamic of c4 with the pair of jspace
statics. your corp info states that you also reside in a c4, which
gives me hope that these will be the kinds of issues you will
spend time on. other c4 corps have stated this as one of the most
serious issues for middle-class, but nobody has really come
forward to offer a solution. uniformity in wormhole classes isn't
exciting, but neither is imbalance in isk availability per unit time.
looking forward to your response, as well as your ustz ama.

good luck white. you have my vote. i know you're good for it.
to give the player base insight to how stellan is in the game as
well as out i'm going to post this conversation between stellan and
"no named mcgee" (player that i will keep anonymous)this isn't
meant to be personal but it will be taken that way. this is being put
out to make sure that anyone considering to vote for him
understands that he is a bomb shell and will not result in a good
candidate for csm*snip* 35. posting of chat logs outside the crime
& punishment forum channel is prohibited.the posting of chat logs
between player parties is prohibited on all forum channels of the
eve online forums, with the exception of the crime & punishment
channel where they can be posted as part of stories in the pirate
story thread.specific rules regarding the omission of pilot names
apply in this instance. further details can be found in the rules
stickies in the crime & punishment forum channel.restoring in this
post can result in a forum ban. *snip* isd max trix.
stellan crendraven realmente eres dominicano? vives en la
republica dominicana? pues por lo que veo en tu canal de
youtube y todo el contenido que aparece de ti no hay nada en
espa<U+FFFD>ol, es mas por lo que veo aparentarias mas ser
nordico que caribe<U+FFFD>o.i dont thing stellan crendraven is
from the dominican republic nor that he lives here. i may be wrong
but i did some reserch on the guy and no content in spanish and
his youtube channel.
no, this was a mistake on my part and have asked ccp to correct
it. i apologise for the confusion. hopefully, the error will be fixed
soon.
since this mistake led me to you....endorse the cause
#quieroeveenespa<U+FFFD>ol ...we need a localize spanish
client. +400 million people speak the second most spoken
language in the world yet in new eden it is just a whisper.if want to
have my vote and tons of eve players that speak spanish do this.
we are growing in eve faster than any other cultural/language
base with dozens of countries all over the globe after the alpha
clone patch ran. it's time for ccp to act on this<U+FFFD>.we need
the support of the csm on this.
yes, eve should also come en espa<U+FFFD>ol. i was actually
surprised that ccp chose french over spanish as their latest
localisation effort when the spanish speaking community is
several times larger than the french one. i support this initiative.
after listening to you on podcasts and interviews i have a few
questions.on podcasts you seem to be a bit of a wall flower. from
what i've seen you have often been unable to follow a continuous
train of thought and have hearing issues (i'm aware you're
disabled). do you think you would you be able overcome this in a
business setting? you haven't had much to say and fall back on
the 'gamer girl' act a lot. the cutesy act only gets you so
far.looking back at your past candidacies i also noticed a few
things. one of those being that you had to record your csm watch
interview for csm 10 twice due to having a panic attack in the
middle of the interview. is your nervousness and awkwardness
around people something that would be an issue working with the
community and ccp being that this is a very public position?i also
noticed you are part of b4r as a moderator. i asked around since i
don't spend a lot of time in those communities and was told that
you love virtual hugs, kisses and cookies. i also heard of more
than one instance that you have banned people from there for
using 'bad words'. is this something you stand by given eve is
such a dark game?you said in your talking in stations interview
that you want to give back to the community since people have
been so nice and helpful to you. you mention 'you feel you'd be
good at it'. do you think that is enough of a reason? it feels like
you could have done other things with the time you've put into
your csm candidacies that would have been more useful than
running over and over. i'm trying to work out why you keep
running. what are you going to be able to effect on ccps road map
since they never change the whole road map because a csm
asks for it?i'm not a hater and i'm sorry if this came off as that. i'm
just piecing things together and not seeing a very good picture at
the moment as someone who did vote for you last year. i'd like to
hear your answers. i'd probably be more interested to hear your
reasoning with these questions in voice rather than in text which
you have said you would rather people use primarily, which
mainly gives you time to think and rethink your answers.-edit to
be more friendly
thank you for your questions!to first point out about the 'gamer
girl' bit. i want to clear this: i do not like the term 'gamer girl' - and
when you hear my talking in stations interview, i actually cringed
when materall brought it up asking how me being a girl effected
me - but i answered anyways because i'm not wanting to turn
down a question, i also mentioned in the interview how i dislike
the term. to me, it doesn't matter if you are male of female, we all
play together as a whole. i do admit that during interviews i do get
a little bit 'giggly' but that is also my nervousness and anxiety
kicking in. this happens to me irl as well - it is a hurdle that i have
to try to overcome - but i can assure that once i am over that
hurdle of interviews - it's a whole other ballgame and i am a very
hard worker and focused.this is the same for the csm watch
interviews - anxiety and panic came over me on top of hearing
difficulties - it was pretty much a disaster and i wish it would have
went better. so i have nothing really much to say on that bit other
than jumping over that hurdle to overcome this. despite the
anxiety and panic ridden interviews, i am 100% confident that
once i can get past the interviews/debates/ect, i will have no
issues working with ccp and doing the job at hand. i am hearing
impaired, however, i do not feel that will hinder me from being
able to still do the work - i just may have to ask someone to repeat
sometimes if i don't catch something.i am a moderator for b4r,
yes, but i also do a lot more than just virtual hugs and cookies - a
lot of my time on there is also spent listening to people and just
being there for people who need it. there is a lot more to that. in
regards to banning, i first have to say on the note of b4r, it is a
channel that is held to a higher standard because of the nature of
the community. but with that said however, it takes a lot more
than a few 'bad words' for me to actually ban someone - and
anyone who knows me can vouch for me on that regards.the
reason i keep running? because this is something that i want to
do. yes i want to give back to the community. being a part of the
community has helped me so much - from when i first joined and
having people taking the time to help me out, to being able to
actually open up more. before i came to eve, i was basically a
hermit - i would never talk on voice unless absolutely needed
because i used to get anxious just at the idea of speaking - but
being with this community has dome something for me - it's
changed me for the better. i can't explain it. i went from being a
quiet fly on the wall to being someone that sometimes my own
corp mates have to tell me to shut up. so yes, i want to give back
to the community that has done so much for me - and having this
opportunity to be able to do this as a voice for the community that
i love would mean a lot to me. so this is why i will keep running
and won't give up despite the hurdles that i have to go through. i
also feel that my reason is good enough - i feel that i am
knowledgeable about the game to be able to provide the feedback
to ccp. i also look at things differently, and by that, meaning
accessibility. i go over in my head how things can be improved or
worked on to better be accessible to other players of other walks
of life. i feel that this type of mindset would be very valuable - it's
also a area that has never had any real representation. i also feel
this answer goes over how i would be able to provide constructive
feedback for ccp as they progress through the road-map.i am
also more than willing to talk on voice and i also frequent eve
radio's public ts at voice.gamingradio.net if you wish to join to get
to know me a little bit more.thank you!
if you're still as soap-opera level pitiful as i remember you being,
then i would be absolutely floored if you could slam your
honeybaked ham hands against the keyboard into microsoft
notepad, somehow congealing your whining, derivative-authority
rambling manifestos into a single coherent thought.i would rather
vote republican.
the reason this trash should never be anywhere near cfcsm of
ccpl.get lost, *******.

just to save people a read, orca platypus is somewhat sore that
bubbles have gained killmails and an expiry timer.
just to save people a vote, the murder of a change passed with
this shitcandidate's full blessing.i think you have been ruining eve
long enough, steve, time for you to quit.
i believe the appropriate comeback is 'u mad bro?' or possibly 'its
only game, why you have to be mad?'bubbling a constellationisn't
something which should be quick and easy. especially not to the
point that people are blinded when they enter a system. which
happens.
reserved....
judging by other time someone tried to go to csm as a multiboxer
supporter it didn't go well.unless you have mc vote brigading you
.maybe you have a chance then. you have my vote then.
who are you and why did you steal my name?
+1 amazing guy, hard-working, smart and just generally really
nice. also he has a strong killer instinct so he ha the best combo
of pve and pvp knowledge and he's super driven. so yeah defo
has my vote!
the reason this trash should never be anywhere near cfcsm of
ccpl.trash like him on csm is the reason #1 to boycott election
entirely.hey ccpl, can we get a vote against the csm entirely?
you mentioned citadels need to be looked at.what about citadels
do you feel needs to be addressed. and what is your opinion on
the dps cap on citadels?
at that point, perhaps asking if any of what they are working on
can coincide with working on pi. ill be honest, i don't code, nor
know how to, but i can only imagine that there are things, even if
little and non time consuming, that could be done at the same
time with little to no loss in productivity on the primary project.
well, in my experience the squeaky wheel gets the grease. so
with that being said, if it gets brought up enough times, something
will happen, either they say nope, not going to work on it or they
say they will. the best way to get things done is for it to be on the
forefront of thought. looking forward, if elected, i will push at every
opportunity possible to excel these points. though at the same
time having the understanding that it may not be within the first
week or month, it may take 3 months or more. but it would be
something that i would bring up consistently.
you've got my vote, sir.
you read that right.every player wants a deeper experience in the
game. it is my goal to encourage that to become a reality. i want
to work towards making all aspects of eve more challenging and
more rewarding. pve players want more content. industrial players
want more complexity and more options. pvp players want to be
able to expand their fitting prowess. let's work to expand the
sandbox.1. lets make the higher tier industrial aspects of the
game more complex.2. increase the risk in pve. dread anoms,
titan anoms. make it a challenge.3. bring proper equity to the
mining ships. 14b isk ships should be bringing in the same ratio of
ore that a 25m isk ship does.i<U+FFFD>m not afraid to speak up
and say what<U+FFFD>s on everyone's mind. i<U+FFFD>m not
intimidated by anyone and i think that what<U+FFFD>s right and
in the best interest of the game and the player base is what is
most important. i don<U+FFFD>t believe that one person or group
is more important than another, but i also believe that the game
should not be modified because someone has found a way to
effectively excel at the game.lets talk about what you want eve to
become for you, and get to work making it a reality.
dancul has raised very interesting points and i for one am sure
that he's the right man for the job.
the reason this trash should never be anywhere near cfcsm of
ccpl.do not vote for this piece of *snip* people. boycott cfcsm
election entirely until even ccpl realizes something is wrong.
is there a candidate anywhere in known space that can speak for
?
they are **** and shouldn't speak, so...
several of them
i'll be back.
