jin'taan president !
live reddit ama right now
i'm supposed to be on a train to clapham junction, so
this is a very quick-fire reply lorelei...your name
reminds me of a boat-trip along the rhine many many
years ago, with school friends. great times!i'll pick up
your references on my return, later today, but thanks
for expanding a bit on your position; it was helpful.
thanks also for listening to the recordings; i
appreciate your respect for player-generated
content.catch you later!
i looked at your concord wish list lorelei - thanks for
the link.suicide ganking - whether of retrievers or
charons - is a very exact science (or should be). you
do seem to understand the mechanics behind the
playstyle and thus i credit you with far more nous
than the average highsec carebear.our basic aim is
to maintain the presence of non-consensual
aggression in highsec and, as i said previously, to
provide both the ganker and the person ganked with
adequate tools for attack and defence.concord is
naturally an important factor in our calculations,
because upon their behaviour is based our ability to
remove barges efficiently. obviously we don't succeed
at every attempt (i've been thwarted many times), and
that is why my initial reaction was that there really
wasn't very much wrong with the mechanics of
ganking.it seems that your suggestion is more about
making the encounter less predictable - for both
sides (i imagine).concord response behaviour is
certainly predictable, which enables us to plan our
ganks with some degree of precision. naturally,
introducing a random element as you suggest would
affect that, but i'm not sure what actual benefits
would be offered to the miners or to the gankers. if
the outcome of a suicide gank became less certain
because of the risk of concord turning up before our
blasters had finished their work, most of us would
simply bring 2 instead of one ganker (some of my
comrades already do this to be sure of snagging the
pod). in effect, the change would be neutralised as
soon as possible. there would thus be no real benefit
to the miner, who would get ganked anyway - if not at
his keyboard, paying attention, etc.introducing a
random element into an activity usually does make it
more interesting, but our business is not that kind of
activity. we don't like the faction police, though. if you
could suggest something about getting rid of them,
that would be interesting!thanks again lorelei. i'll
continue looking down the list, but realistically, unless
someone from our own community steps forward, our
point of view may be aired but couldn't be pushed. i
guess that's why so many new order members vote
for other supporters of our very distinctive playstyle.
it's impossible to have an effective 'highsec
representative', because of the broad scope i
mentioned in my previous post. perhaps playstyles
should be represented in addition to regions; but
then, i fear the bill for trips to iceland might break into
ccp's 'bottom line'.
thanks for taking the time to read what i wrote.thank
you. in my first campaign thread there was some
discussion with admiral root about ganking... and i
even tried it out a couple of times to see how it
worked (the poor victims got more than reimbursed
by me, and are still on my zkillboard to see).less
predictable for both sides, and also to "feel" like it
makes more sense. and of course, after a big
freighter gank there are many concord ships floating
around that cause even more lag for someone
playing on a low-end box like mine. lag is not fun. so i
am not just talking to stir things up, but also to
improve the new eden experience for people like me!
i am quite sure that the gankers will more quickly
adapt to any changes than the gankees. but that is
the way of the carebear... that is how we
are.interesting, but there is already the chance to buy
tags and turn them in... or rat them. sure it costs
and/or takes time, but it is there to be taken
advantage of. not sure how much sense it makes to
have to go to a station and turn the tags in but
concord need their blood money... bit like with wardec
fees. thank you for taking the time to at least read
what i was writing!btw i actually found mike's post
about the nature of the csm encouraging... maybe
there is hope for the future after all!
vote lillik e for csmxii! let's gender balance eve online
and w-space!
+1 from mequestion:how would you like to see pvp
balanced ? ( broad question i know but still )
broad indeed, theres too many different types of pvp
in eve to answer that easily.you have the 'pvper' who
goes out looking for easy gank's(hulks) then spams
the crap out of local when you fight back / camp him
inyou have the pvper's that will come and wait while
you form up a fleet to fight them, which is the gf type
of fights i like.you have the n+1 type of fighting, which
usually take hours of soul crushing lag to get
through.you have the were leet pvper's who spend
2b per ship and cannot be countered without a
bloband finally you have the brute force supercaps
are us group.yes theres also station games , highsec
wars, lowsec brawls, logoff traps, npsi fleets,
gatecamps, stream roams, blops, wh's and troll
fleets.so if you can be a little more specific, i will try to
answer, but it will all come down to trying to maintain
the balance between all types of combat without
making one particular ship (svipul, orthrus) the only
ship to use
i think the overall isk payout isn't too bad for c4 sites
personally, my biggest suggestion would be to reduce
the spawn ranges of the waves in order to make the
site more compact, this allows for less transit time,
and can reduce the amount of time running sites by a
reasonable amount. i do know people who claim to
be able to farm c4s to make isk at nearly or
equivalent to running c5 sites, though personally i'm
not aware of this, because most of my farming (if i
can be bothered to do it these days) was done
running c5 sites. i would think maximum isk/hr would
be done with 2 rattlesnakes with micro jonn drives in
order to be able to position correctly for each spawn
(though, depending on times to kill waves, potentially
marauders could handle this better, with the
reduction on cooldown timers that they receive for
mjds.i also don't really see c4s as being at a
disadvantage too much, simply because with static
4s, there's access to a lot of lower class pvp with
small wormhole groups, something that c5 space is
lacking, historically speaking. c2 wormholes really
function as a gateway into the rest of wormhole
space to be honest, they provide easy access to
kspace, while providing the ability to dive deep. as
they are they're honestly mostly fine in my opinion.
the isk per hour may be a little bit low compared to
higher class wormholes definitely, but it's also then an
incentive to move up. the only real thing i would
suggest doing is a combination of 2 things:1) give all
sites (active or not) a 14 day timer, and when that
time limit is reached, they despawn, and come back
somewhere else, this will help prevent clumping in
whs, and distribute isk a little bit easier.2) i would up
the amount (as in actual number, not isk value) of c2
sites, in order to make sure there's a good amount to
be run relatively easily, while this won't fix the isk/hr,
it'll give more pve content that will help players
out.the way wormholes stand at this point, c1 and c3
class are definitely oriented towards industrial corps,
c2s act as training wheels to handle higher class
wormholes, c4s tend to be where small to mid-gang
pvp groups or larger low-end pve groups tend to
gravitate (there are exceptions, depending on
statics/effects of course). c5s are where the big
groups reside, and c6s are for farming
space.personally, i feel like we need to change that
up a bit, i see c1-c3 space being pretty reasonable as
is, where as c4 needs some care and consideration
for isk making, and c5 space is fine, but c6 space
needs a lot of work. i appreciate you bringing forward
these concerns and if you have more questions about
it, i'd love to answer them more in depth during my
ustz ama (which i'm planning for this weekend,
depending on real life scheduling conflicts)
with any luck, this weekend i'll do a us/early autz ama
as well. for those who don't fit well into those
timezones, i do apologize, but i would be more than
happy to field your questions either through in game
mail, or perhaps a discord chat/text.

pve shouldn<U+FFFD>t be this ded <U+FFFD>
power back to the players.when i started playing, the
pirate hulls and deadspace loot which came from
deds was big business. living in syndicate, the sites
were more than static rats waiting to be farmed
<U+FFFD> they were contested and fought over by
the lean, starving residents of npc null as some of
their only income. some of my best memories that got
me hooked were of fighting over these sites
<U+FFFD> a fundamental departure from the
skinner-box raids of the other mmos i played; the
npcs were not the main course, they were merely a
pretext to player interaction. the deds of old are, in
every way possible, a great model of how eve pve
should work; scarcity and competition should
bottleneck some classes of pve to spur content and
shape certain economies.let<U+FFFD>s talk about
scarcity. if you are in sov, there<U+FFFD>s no
reason to defend your anomaly, as there are an
unlimited supply, and you can just dock up until the
danger goes away. if you are doing fw, likewise, as a
farmer, you can just find another system, and there
will be many more plexes than there needs to be.
deds used to be different <U+FFFD> there was such
a limited supply that they became worth fighting over,
and the loot valuable. now, the idea is laughable
<U+FFFD> loot is so devalued that even a max
payout drop isn<U+FFFD>t worth a ship loss. eve at
it<U+FFFD>s core is about getting people to interact,
and the former value of these sites promoted that, as
attackers and defenders both had something worth
interacting over <U+FFFD> big money.now
let<U+FFFD>s talk about competition. after the great
escalation changes accompanying aegissov, sov null
was producing so many deds, and producing them so
deep in guarded space, that the prices of all loot
tanked. one could say the opportunity cost of running
them in npc null became nonviable given how easily
and safely one could factory farm them deep in sov.
soon there was no reason to run them out of sov, and
both content seeds and income was plucked from
npc null. i mean you could ostensibly say that there
are moons in npc null, yes, of course there are, but
these generally end up in control of larger, stronger,
neighboring sov style alliances, wrestled from the
smaller, scrappier npc null residents. smaller entities
would like more active income they can actually
struggle for, like deds, rather than the game of sov
come to npc null in the form of pos-timer content.the
current sov model does well to support larger entities
<U+FFFD> they can feed their members by
developing the systems and moons just fine. high-sec
has incursions and industry which are both madly
lucrative given the relative lack of risk. low-sec has
faction warfare and l5 missions. npc null has...well
nothing that can be used to empower smaller groups.
to let small groups build up, to give entities other than
the few large, monolithic entities a foot hold in a very
dog-eat-dog world, they need bottom up, accessible
income. what do i mean by that? the income source
needs to be something that does not require large
build up or investment from preexisting entities,
infrastructures, or npc standings <U+FFFD>
something that cannot be essentially used as ransom
or payment by the people that already
<U+FFFD>have<U+FFFD>. it needs to be
accessible, i.e anyone can do it. the perfect fit for
both of these, while encouraging smaller group
content, is deds. the deds 7-10 should be moved to
npc nullsec exclusively. if larger entities wanted to
control these resources, it would take considerable,
active effort, rather than the sterile, timer based
flexing of large coalition musculature. the intended
result is to give some of the keys of content and
group building back to smaller entities, and give them
unique resources which are impractical for larger
entities to try and control, given their scale and focus.
if escalations are to remain, they should only escalate
into npc space, and the escalation should become
scannable after a set time.likewise, this would reign
in some of the absurdity with the current pirate
battleship supply issues. they would slowly return to
being rare, to being special. it would shift a little bit of
the income to other stewards of content, to the small
entities. some people do not find their eve-self in a
massive coalition; who they are and what they do in
new eden is requires them to live a dangerous life on
the edge with a few of their friends. there has been a
lot of development on content ratchets for larger, big
ticket entities; it<U+FFFD>s about time they give a
resource that can be contested on a smaller scale,
while simultaneously fixing part of a large scale over-
supply problem. every space, every playstyle, should
have the appropriate tools and income opportunity to
support itself <U+FFFD> npc null is a place so many
people want to be able to live, yet has less actual
support than lowsec, in my appraisal.tl:dr move ded 7
through 10 to npc nullsec exclusive sites,
simultaneously address the supply issues with pirate
battleship hulls while adding a niche economy for an
underdeveloped
i remember the days part when
                         of space.
                               a small group could live in
npc null and keep their people in ships just from the
ded sites around them. i t would be great if it was an
option again.
i don't even know who you are, but i'm guessing it's
definitely not recent. or you don't even know me.
either way. gudpost.
hello you can ask all you question down here.fly safe
o/*
tienes mi apoyo como hispano con una
condici<U+FFFD>n lleva la causa
#quieroeveenespa<U+FFFD>ol en tus propuestas, la
comunidad hispana necesita el cliente en
espa<U+FFFD>ol. este a<U+FFFD>o en eve vegas
lleve la causa personalmente a directivos de ccp, es
hora de que el tema siga escalando.mas info en
                                                      1
                                                       1
gracias por tu apoyo juvenius, siento que ccp podria
ayudar mucho a la comunidad de habla hispana
pueda entender mas rapido el juego al inicio. en mi
experiencia en particular fue de mucho provecho
haber conocido tantos jugadores que tuvieron la
dedicacion de ense<U+FFFD>arme a jugar eve,
muchos de ellos son jugadores de habla son de
habla inglesa y les estoy muy agradecido. thank you
for you support juvenius, i feel ccp can help to make
more understanding this game for all players
beningers spanish speakers. my experience was so
greatful because i meet incredible players, they help
me alot to understand eve. many of them are english
and im so greatfull of they.
my playform is based on a few simple things. 1. all
players need to be represented. not just the mega
blocks and well known players in eve. even the solo
gamer that just logs in and spends there time solo
just discovering the game should have a voice. 2.
even the smallest idea or complaint should be able to
be heard by ccp. not just the major issues in game. 3.
i believe that the long standing bugs need to be
worked on. we all want new features. but i also think
that the older bugs and issues that persist in game
should finally be addressed. 4. i think corp roles need
to be reworked. ive always thought the roles were not
user friendly enough. and we need better options on
assigning roles. 5. corp logos need to be reworked.
there should be a edit feature or upload like with
alliance logos. a corp logo should be able to truly
represent what the corps about. 6. motherships? ccp
took them and called them super carriers but one day
motherships would be revisited. 7. i also feel fatique
needs a rework too. while im all for limiting power
projection. i think jump fatique still needs some
tweeks. yes
simple and staright. got my vote +1
drone regions resident?
you have my vote sullen!
eve csm cadidate page:
original line from my narrative:increase the risk in
pve. dread anoms, titan anoms. make it a
challenge.comment from reddit:it will just widen a
gap between vets and newbros. people able to fly
dreads (let alone titans) have means to make isk that
are unthinkable/unavailable to new people already. i
fail to see how it would make eve a better game.my
response:so this is a fair statement and one that was
even brought up by some of my corp mates. hang
with me on this:the same could be said for skill
points. the longer the game is around, the more skill
point gap appears. that's the method by which ccp
has chosen to separate access to content.the game
needs to improve for everyone. improvements for
new bros shouldn't be viewed from a veterans
perspective, and there surely should be some
improvements. when we look at improving the game
for veterans, we can't view those changes from the
new bro prospective. the improvements made for
veterans are naturally unavailable to new bros, and
they should be unavailable to them. here's why...the
way many games exist now is reflected of an "upper
limit" mindset in game design. get to level 60, grind
out stuff... i'm arguing that most people don't play
games to run out of challenges. games shouldn't be
designed to "end" as far as new content goes.
currently there aren't a lot of things outside pvp that a
super or a titan can do that involves some level of risk
and an equitable reward.i feel that it is insulting to
veterans and those who have truly spent the time to
be in the upper content only to bang their head on the
cap. all i'm saying is keep pushing the envelope of
what's challenging. it's a challenge to run a sanctum
in a standard fit battleship. it's insanely mundane to
do the same in a carrier, but there isn't anything
higher to do.when you engage your veterans more
intensely, you create more goals for players to
achieve, you deepen their investment into the game,
you keep their business longer. that improves the
game.thanks for the comment.
comment from reddit:what are your thoughts on other
forms of pve (missions and exploration)?how would
you justify a gated capitals-anomaly in terms of risk
(since tackle ships and hictors would be unable to
take this gate from the sound of it)?my response:i
can't speak to the exploration aspect of the game,
mostly because it's never interested me enough to
make me want to learn it.pve is an aspect of gaming
that has a lot of different sub-genres to it. some
people like anom (lair) style, some like incursion
(group quest) style, some data/relic (solo puzzle)
style, some like mission (quest) style, and then
there's story arcs. i think this is such a deep topic that
books can be (and probably are) written about it.as
for missions, that's really a standard part of gaming. a
quest based system that has steps and a reward. i
don't think there's anything "wrong" with it, it's just
one of those must have things in a game. where i
would advocate for some improvements is in amount
of content. i'm the kind of person who thinks we
should have 20 times more modules and items in the
game. i don't think you could ever have enough of
that type of content. the more you have the greater
the customization of fits and that can really drive
player investment.tldr; i'd greatly increase variety,
difficulty, and rewards of them(gonna make a second
post about the gated anoms)the gated anom idea is
still one i'm working on in my mind, but i think there is
some merit in it. i had some thoughts about it that
have since showed some flaw after discussion with
corp mates. there are currently inverse pve
environments where capitals aren't allowed.the basic
idea is that complexity of the environment be
increased. yeah not being able to tackle it seems to
be an "downside" of that concept. maybe this isn't the
answer, but bring a capital ship and tackle it.i would
be 100% open to discussion on that specifically.
for the second year of the elections of the csm i wish
to add a topic to the agendas and proposals of all the
candidates.take our petition to ccp to make a
localized client in spanish for eve online.we have
made a petition in the order of hundreds of signatures
in change.org, a active campaign in social media with
the hashtag #quieroeveenespa<U+FFFD>ol and this
past year in eve vegas 2016 i personally took the
cause #quieroeveenespa<U+FFFD>ol to
@ccp_seagul @ccp_orca and others in ccp games,
at this time we don't have a clear timeline of this
happening.after the alpha clone patch was released
we have seen a considerable rise of new players of
spanish speaking backgrounds, all our forums, social
media groups and media channels it is clear that now
more than ever having a client in spanish is a must.
spanish is the second most spoken language in the
world, with well over 400 million speakers dozens of
nations of whom just a fraction now play eve due to
the limitation of the client, in contrast we have the
client localized in japanese were just a fraction of the
world speaks it . it makes sense to have it in both
player numbers and profits for ccp. there is
precedence that in the past ccp was looking to do it,
but it did not get off the ground. make this one of your
goals as a csm member and you will have the votes
and support of the hole spanish playing community of
eve. please take it in consideration,best
regardsjdreference:

+1 we need spanish client to facilitate the game to
spanish speaking players
#quieroeveenespa<U+FFFD>ol
id be happy to push for more multiple language
support and accessibility within eve online. its a great
idea and opens new markets
i'm supporting this./signed.
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes would you propose to ccp pertaining to
game mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to
you in the upcoming csm election.dmc
thank you for the question.i see that your query is
important to you, and that you have been asking a lot
of the csm candidates for their thoughts. to answer
honestly, i have not had to deal with faction standings
for a long time. while i did participate in caldari faction
warfare my time was brief and the experience did not
harm my standings too badly with other factions.
many games have a faction system and allow for
players to partake in a type of 'regional politics'
similar to what we see in eve, though the eve system
is far more branched, detailed, and complicated to
understand minutely. let's consider the problem:the
biggest issue, really, is educating the new player that
their standings can and will have long term
implications should they pursue pve missions or
faction warfare for a long enough time. if you begin
the game doing caldari navy missions, and then
move to caldari faction warfare and after 3 months of
play finally get the nerve to venture to other areas of
space, you will find that you've screwed yourself over
without realizing it and that it may take another 1 or 2
months before you can safely fly to dodixie,
depending on your time commitment to eve. we could
implement a buy-back system using tags or other
items, but then eve factions effectively become
meaningless to everyone but the hard core role
player. it's no longer a decision of "what am i willing
to work for?" but of "how much isk do i need?"i could
definitely see adding a buy back or donation system
to certain smaller factions, but only as a "foot in the
door" measure to the bigger guys. making faction
standings easier to acquire and manipulate will also
have market effects that need to be considered.
specific ships and modules are only available based
on faction standings. the easier it is to acquire those
standings, the less rare the items, and the more
flooded the market, upsetting balances and leading to
recessions in certain sectors. here's my two thoughts
on how to make this better for the new player as a
whole, without terribly upsetting market values and
balances. we could setup an in game system that
allows you to check how an action will affect your
standings with a faction, and/or a ui change that
makes it a lot easier to see recent changes to your
faction standings at a glance. we can add warnings
and dialogue to the npe as well as to other actions
(about to join fw, making achoice between two gates
in a mission involving separate factions, etc) that
says something about how you can screw your
faction standings hard core for dropping off that cargo
or blapping amarr navy ships in a caldari mission.
tl;dr - don't add a buy back system unless its only for
the smaller subfactions, add more warnings to the
npe and elsewhere in game and maybe a ui change
that can make changes to your standings easier to
understand and track.
thanks for the reply.yes, it's an important aspect of
the game, not only to me but to a lot of other players
as well. i must say i like and agree 100% with what
you posted, ccp definitely needs to incorporate more
awareness to faction standings in-game. this game
was based on having a balance in 'risk vs reward'
and 'actions vs consequences' which makes this
game great. currently the only way to repair negative
faction standings is to grind missions. it takes time for
players to ruin faction standings and it should take
some time to repair those standings. in the past
characters use to be accountable for their actions in-
game, now most everything has been dumbed down
and turned into easy mode for the instant gratification
crowd. that's something i don't want to see happen to
faction standings. currently the in-game aspects of
faction standings :positive faction standings are the
only way to access cosmos agents (one time
access).positive faction and corporation standings
are needed to access research agents.all other
agents only require minimal amount of faction
standing for access (-2.00 or higher standing).high
faction standings reduce market broker fees and
reprocessing fees in npc stations.at -5.00 or lower
faction standing, empire npc's will attack when in
their space.i think ccp made a big mistake when they
removed the need to have faction standings to
anchor pos in high sec space. i'd like to see more
content pertaining to faction standings be added to
the game but at this time my inquiry is based more on
the effects of negative faction standings.i created and
shared the 'faction standing repair plan' with the
playerbase back in 2010. in my opinion players need
more options available to repair negative faction
standings then what i've listed in 'the plan'. most of
those event agents can only be accessed once in the
characters life. a lot of players in-game don't even
read the forums so they don't know that guide is
available. in fact repairing negative faction standings
is a big task for experienced players. new players
who haven't even learned the game yet can easily
mess up their faction standings right from the start
without even knowing it, resulting in no access to half
of empire space.these are some options i think would
help players in-game.faction standing repair process
be implemented in-game to be very intuitive, not
obscure (tutorial perhaps).changes to empire faction
standings notify players with on screen pop up
message (option to deactivate).actions that would
cause negative empire faction standing trigger on
screen pop up warning (option to deactivate).all anti-
empire mission briefings have a warning to inform
players those missions will incur negative faction
standings.implement tags for standings in-game
based on similar game mechanics as tags for
security.add npc agents to in-game agent finder for
faction standing repair (similar to proposal in my
forum signature).anyway, thanks again for the reply
and good luck in the upcoming election.dmc
my vote is for you and thank you one more time for
bringing issues towards ccp that were bothering
me.for csm 12my top 5 issues for csm 12 to take for
ccp to consideration.1. pve missions are stagnant and
have not seen any improvement in years and not
talking about burner missions. (burners i find
extremely annyoing as if you are required to fly
specific fit to be able to even do it there is something
wrong with it. try do all burners with minmatar ships
for example doable maybe fun no)2. battleships
these back in the day felt good now these feel like big
target/loot pi<U+FFFD>ata (hopefully csm 11 results
show up here and there will be change)3. marauders
allmost all other ships have gotten buffs and
overhauls but marauders still are the same they were
when first introduced i love my marauders (all except
the gallante kronos that thing is just bad) even if the
balance change would be to just make them
comparable with eachother that would be start.) and i
know marauders are not the most popular ship well
maybe they are not popular because it takes years to
train the skills for all marauders and price is quite
high and there has been no overhauls/improvements
to marauders in years.4. drones when will ccp see
the light that drones are too strong compared to most
other weapon systems. (drones are quite popular in
fw i wonder why? most exploration people are using
drone setups because most exploration ships get
drone bonuses how about adding exploration ships
with other weapon systems also)5. ganking in hisec
way too easy with little actual risk for you.

hello jin'taan,we had a small discussion about faction
standings in my assembly hall proposal : bring back
'the endless battle' missions.now i'm not going to ask
if you actually conversed with ccp about it nor do i
want to know the outcome of that discussion if in fact
you actually did bring it to their attention.my question
- what is your viewpoint regarding faction standings
and as a csm member, what changes will you
propose to ccp pertaining to game mechanics for
faction standings ?good luck to you in the upcoming
csm election.dmc
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes will you propose to ccp pertaining to game
mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to you in
the upcoming csm election.dmc
so this has been on of my fears specifically with
regards to the npe dumping people off in faction
warfare. faction standings can seriously screw up a
players long term game. its to hard to alter these
standings back to a balanced level for experienced
players and consodering a new player wont
understand the significance of the standinga till its
too late and the damage will be done.i think like sec
statu there should be a buy this and exchange for
favorwith a faction allowing people to get back to
possitive standingswith the faction they need to.
though i'm game to see other approachs and ideas.
thanks for the reply.this game was founded on the
premise of having a balance on 'risk vs reward' and
'actions vs consequences'. it takes time for players to
ruin faction standings and as such it should also take
some time to repair those standings. i know it's tough
on new players who haven't learned the game yet. i
use to be one of those players who was victimized by
negative faction standings until i decided to do
something about it. after 3 months of research in
2010, i created and shared the 'faction standing
repair plan' with the eve online community.i agree
there should be more options available for characters
to repair negative faction standings but i don't like the
idea of having tags for standings. just like tags for
security, i think those are nothing more than a 'get out
of jail free card' for actions that should merit some
consequences. in the past characters use to be
accountable for their actions in-game, now most
everything has been dumbed down and turned into
easy mode for the instant gratification crowd.in my
opinion anti-empire missions should have a warning
to alert players that accepting and completing those
mission will affect their faction standings in a
negative aspect. also the process of standings repair
should be implemented in-game to be more intuitive
instead of being so obscure. lastly ccp could add
another group of npc agents strictly for faction
standing repair, sorta like the proposal i have listed in
my forum signature.anyway, thanks again for the
reply and good luck in the upcoming election.dmc
i caution against a full faction status buy-back system
on the grounds that would cause further problems
with other in game systems. we might solve the
problem of "oops! i blapped my standings when i
blapped them ships" but we'd devalue the use of
faction standings overall. it might be better to try and
increase the visibility of faction standings and the
changes your actions can have as well as increase
the in-game awareness of faction standings through
warnings and npe education. i wouldn't mind seeing
ccp add value to faction standings overall, through
reworking the use of standings in some way. it might
help to improve life for those who seek a more pve
play style in eve. edit: i do conceed that some form of
buy back \ bribe system for the minor factions that
cross empire borders but are tied to one of the major
factions might be a good idea to allow people to get
their footing back when accidents happen.
couod scale it have a max that can be bought back
(enough not to get shot at in their space. obviously
not pump to +10. im just spitballing ideas i dk t really
have a firm opinion on it
i agree there. added a concession edit to my
response before i saw yours.
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes would you propose to ccp pertaining to
game mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to
you in the upcoming csm election.dmc
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes would you propose to ccp pertaining to
game mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to
you in the upcoming csm election.dmc
i almost dismissed you entirely, but after reading your
exchange with sasha, whom i hold in high regard and
have great respect for, i will be watching you closely.
you have not earned my vote yet, but you still have a
chance to do so. o7
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes will you propose to ccp pertaining to game
mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to you in
the upcoming csm election.dmc
thanks for stopping by! i feel i have grown up since
my first (and most successful) campaign. the
exchange with sasha however is nothing new... there
are similar exchanges in my last two campaign
threads... i am neither naive nor arrogant enough to
think that ccp will suddenly change their minds about
(non-consensual) pvp just because i say so...
anyway... i am playing eve because i choose to play
eve. when i want to play in peace and quiet i play
something like transport tycoon (although my old
computer is too quick for that now). fantastic!um...
just a couple of questions...1) can you think of a way
to turn war decs into a meaningful, consistent and
playable experience for everyone involved?2) do you
bring a voting block with you, or is it just you?3) what
do you want?o7ps bumping has been raised a lot as
a theme... again. i belong to probably the 10 people
that has actually gone and read the *whole* c&p
thread on the subject... i plan to make a longer post
about that this evening / night (eu time). maybe you
could critique it, let me know what you think?
thanks for stopping by.faction standings? they seem
a lot more superfluous since more things are getting
done in citadels, even in high sec. i wish someone
had told me at the beginning that by doing missions i
could end up being unable to fly in gallente space...
but other than stuff like that i think the issues they
cause are overshadowed by other things! if i were to
get elected however, of course the concerns of all
carebears should be taken into account.what is you
problem with faction standings and what do you think
ccp should do about it?
thanks for the reply.as a csm candidate for high sec, i
would think you'd view faction standings a lot more
than just superfluous since they have a large impact
on high sec game play. as you very well know, the
consequences of not knowing about faction standing
game mechanics can easily mess up a players game
play activities, especially new players.personally i
don't have any problems with faction standings,
especially after creating the faction standing repair
plan back in 2010..what i'd like to see ccp do is have
the process of faction standing repair be
implemented into the game so that it's intuitive
instead of being obscure. anti-empire missions
should have a warning to alert players that accepting
and completing those missions will have a negative
affect on their faction standings. lastly ccp could add
another group of npc agents to the game strictly for
faction standing repair, sorta like the proposal i have
listed in my forum signature.anyway, thanks again for
the reply and good luck in the upcoming election.dmc

hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes would you propose to ccp pertaining to
game mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to
you in the upcoming csm election.dmc
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes will you propose to ccp pertaining to game
mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to you in
the upcoming csm election.dmc
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes would you propose to ccp pertaining to
game mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to
you in the upcoming csm election.dmc
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes will you propose to ccp pertaining to game
mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to you in
the upcoming csm election.dmc
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes will you propose to ccp pertaining to game
mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to you in
the upcoming csm election.dmc
faction standings for me are pretty much a moot
point.i have +9.3 with amarr empire, 9.1 with
ammatar, 7.4 with caldari state, yet they dont provide
me with any benefitsyou dont even need good
standings to deploy citadels anymore.the size of the
population the negative standings actually affect,
could probably be counted on your handsif you live in
lowsec, nullsec, or wh space, they have no affect on
you. since i am a nullsec person, suggesting fix's for
them is not something i should be doing.
thanks for the reply.as for negative faction standings
not affecting very many players, i have to disagree
and can attest to the fact that it does indeed affect
lot's of players. i know because i'm the author of the
'faction standing repair plan' which i created back in
2010.since you have high faction standings with
amarr, ammatar and caldari, it's reasonable safe to
say you have negative faction standings with gallente
and minmatar which more than likely has cut out
access to almost half of empire space.. granted
you're a null sec player who probably only deals with
the jita market hub but players in w-space face
problems getting to market if their hole doesn't open
in a faction friendly system.anyway, thanks again for
the reply and good luck in the upcoming election.dmc
o/glad to see you running for the position. it would
really be a great asset to the csm to have somebody
with your knowledge and understanding of the game
on board.you have perfect knowledge of how smaller
groups can operate and survive within nullsec, thats
both isk-wise, politics and long-term.i've experienced
this first hand, and can only hope you succed!fly safe!
actually, my standings with others are not as bad as
they can be, you can do missions for groups that
have positive standings with all factions to keep your
standings from dropping too low. yes i have -3 to
gallente and -4 to minmatar, it is still possible to
improve them without directly using their agents. i
beleve its soe that can improve standings with all
areas.thank you chigy :)
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes would you propose to ccp pertaining to
game mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to
you in the upcoming csm election.dmc
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes will you propose to ccp pertaining to game
mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to you in
the upcoming csm election.dmc
can you clarify what you mean about by faction
standings? like overall security status, standings
towards empires? corporations? i'm curious to see
what issues you see with this in particular.as my
personal standpoint goes, in 99.5% of all cases i
couldn't care less about faction standings (as i'm
primarily a wormhole pilot), so i myself don't really
interact enough with them to have a strong opinion
towards changing them.
thanks for the reply.my question pertains to a
character's faction standing towards empire factions,
not their personal security status.as a w-space pilot,
having negative faction standings with an empire
faction could cause problems for transporting goods
to market, especially if your hole opened up in an
unfriendly faction system.anyway, thanks again for
the reply and good luck in the upcoming election.dmc
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes would you propose to ccp pertaining to
game mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to
you in the upcoming csm election.dmc
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes would you propose to ccp pertaining to
game mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to
you in the upcoming csm election.dmc
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes would you propose to ccp pertaining to
game mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to
you in the upcoming csm election.dmc
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes will you propose to ccp pertaining to game
mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to you in
the upcoming csm election.dmc
hello, quite a bit of controversy here in this thread.
don't understand why isd didn't clean up this thread
since it actually got derailed.anyway
..................................my question - what is your
viewpoint regarding faction standings and as a csm
member, what changes would you propose to ccp
pertaining to game mechanics for faction standings ?
good luck to you in the upcoming csm election.dmc
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes would you propose to ccp pertaining to
game mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to
you in the upcoming csm election.dmc
still open for questions/comments.thank you so much
for the support so far from everyone! voting is just a
few days away and i hope to be considered to be on
your ballot!
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes will you propose to ccp pertaining to game
mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to you in
the upcoming csm election.dmc
i think it's a hit and miss with regards to faction
standings. in my time with mission running i have
always personally avoided missions that would result
in standing loss - as someone who does logistics
around the map in high sec i am very careful in that
respects with what would happen if i were to dip my
status with a faction too low and end up getting shot.
risk vs. reward.it's a pretty steep consequence to
have standing hits from missions - but at the same
time, there has to be some risk involved with shooting
other factions - obviously if you shoot at caldari npc's,
it's only natural that your standings would get messed
up, i mean, you shot their friends!i also remember
back when standings effected if you could make jump
clones or not and how i busted by butt in missions to
get the standings needed for npc corps to make
those clones in high sec only to have them not matter
later on - don't get me wrong, i love that you can
make jump clones anywhere now regardless - but
there was also this rewarding feeling when you finally
get to that point where you have reached your goal
past from what you could get in the lp store.the
rewards you seem to only get now that matter are the
lp store credits and less of the feeling of
accomplishment like how i felt when i got my
standings for the clones, or even a corp working
together to place a pos up in hs. but if you loose
enough standings you become a target. i would like
to see there be a easier way to regain those
standings.
thanks for the reply but you didn't really give an
answer to my question, other than you think it's a hit
and miss situation which needs an easier way to
repair negative faction standings.this game was
founded with the premise of having a balance on 'risk
vs reward' and 'actions vs consequences'. it takes
time for players to ruin their faction standings and as
such it should also take time for players to repair
those standings. in the past characters were
accountable for their actions in-game, now most
everything has been dumbed down and turned into
easy mode for the instant gratification crowd.now i
agree there was a time long ago when having
negative faction standings prohibited players from
enjoying all aspects of the game. that myth was due
to players just accepting that consequence as fact
instead of actually searching for a remedy to correct
that situation. course the process of standings repair
should have been implemented to be more intuitive
within the game instead of being so
obscure.unfortunately ccp doesn't like to present
things in black & white. they prefer various shades of
gray and enjoy seeing the player base figure things
out on their own. ccp distributes the content
throughout the game for players to find and put the
pieces together. players then share that info with the
community. that's what makes this game great. i
know because i use to be one of those players who
felt victimized by negative faction standings until i
decided to do something about it. after 3 months of
research in 2010, i created and shared the 'faction
standing repair plan' ('the plan') with the eve online
community. time and time again it proved itself to the
playerbase that it not only easily and quickly repaired
negative faction standings, it also helped boost
positive faction standings as well.one of the main
points for having high faction standings was the
ability to anchor pos in high security systems. granted
that aspect of faction standing game mechanic was
removed by ccp which in my opinion was a huge
mistake. another point for having high faction
standing is reduced broker fees as well as reduced
refining fees in npc stations.anyway, i'm sure we can
all agree there's a few game mechanics that
definitely need to be revised, including the one
pertaining to faction standings. i just wanted to know
what your stance is on faction standings and what
changes you'd propose to ccp.thanks again for the
reply and good luck to you.dmc[/quote]
i'm slightly confused at your response, you brought
up things that i did talk about. tho i noticed that you
are copy and pasting the same response around. that
aside, i did talk about the consequence that you face
and how i do feel that the feeling of reward isn't the
same as it used to be. that's my viewpoint. what
changes i would bring up? to make it easier to regain
standings (perhaps simular to tags like we have for
sec. status?) or/and to bring back a way to have that
feeling of reward again someway (ie. having
standings matter - bringing back a sense of reward
when you work up your standings). how exactly - well
i'm not sure how to 100% answer that. csm aren't
mini-developers, and to try to 'promise' something
isn't right. what i can do provide the feedback to ccp
on the topic. thanks :)*edited for clarification
thanks for the reply again.sorry if my copy and paste
offended you, it's merely done for time efficiency
since there's a lot of candidates to review.. also most
answers to my question are very similar.anyway, i
agree with what you've posted here and once again i
wish you good luck in the upcoming election.dmc
it didn't offend me, but more curious since some of
the mentions were stuff that i did talk about.thank you
very much for the questions!
hello,first of all i agree there's a few game mechanics
that definitely need to be revised including the one
pertaining to faction standings.however i disagree
with your viewpoint. this game was based on having
a balance in 'risk vs reward' and 'actions vs
consequences' which makes this game great.
currently the only way to repair negative faction
standings is to grind missions. it takes time for
players to ruin faction standings and it should take
some time to repair those standings. in the past
characters use to be accountable for their actions in-
game, now most everything has been dumbed down
and turned into easy mode for the instant gratification
crowd. that's something i don't want to see happen to
faction standings. currently the in-game aspects of
faction standings :positive faction standings are the
only way to access cosmos agents (one time
access).positive faction and corporation standings
are needed to access research agents.all other
agents only require minimal amount of faction
standing for access (-2.00 or higher standing).high
faction standings reduce market broker fees and
reprocessing fees in npc stations.at -5.00 or lower
faction standing, empire npc's will attack when in
their space.in my opinion ccp made a big mistake
when they removed the need to have faction
standings to anchor pos in high sec space. i'd like to
see more content pertaining to faction standings be
added to the game but at this time my inquiry is
based more on the effects of negative faction
standings.i created and shared the 'faction standing
repair plan' with the playerbase back in 2010. in my
opinion players need more options available to repair
negative faction standings then what i've listed in 'the
plan'. most of those event agents can only be
accessed once in the characters life. a lot of players
in-game don't even read the forums so they don't
know that guide is available. in fact repairing negative
faction standings is a big task for experienced
players. new players who haven't even learned the
game yet can easily mess up their faction standings
right from the start without even knowing it, resulting
in no access to half of empire space.anyway these
are some options i think would help players in-
game.faction standing repair process be
implemented in-game to be very intuitive, not obscure
(tutorial perhaps).changes to faction standings notify
players with on screen pop up message (option to
deactivate).actions that would cause negative faction
standing trigger on screen pop up warning (option to
deactivate).all anti-empire mission briefings have a
warning to inform players those missions will incur
negative faction standings.implement tags for
standings in-game based on similar game mechanics
as tags for security.add npc agents to in-game agent
finder for faction standing repair (similar to proposal
in my forum signature).once again good luck with the
upcoming election.dmc
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes would you propose to ccp pertaining to
game mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to
you in the upcoming csm election.dmc
jr is a good man.
i have removed some post by a player for the above
reason. refered to the community team for further
action.
well, i guess that answers half of the question that
i've been posting to all csm candidates :my question -
what is your viewpoint regarding faction standings
and as a csm member, what changes will you
propose to ccp pertaining to game mechanics for
faction standings ?good luck to you in the upcoming
csm election.dmc
something i've already proposed is tags for faction
standing, much like tags for sec. won't take it above
0, but provides an easy, if expensive, way to repair
your standing, if you did what's pretty common for
beginners, and took the faction missions which
tanked your standing.
thanks for the reply steve,this game was founded
with the premise of having a balance on 'risk vs
reward' and 'actions vs consequences'. it takes time
for players to ruin their faction standings and as such
it should also take time for players to repair those
standings. i know it's tough on new players who
haven't learned the game yet. anti-empire missions
should have a warning to alert players that accepting
and completing those mission will affect their faction
standings in a negative aspect. i agree there should
be more options available for characters to repair
negative faction standings but i don't like the idea of
having tags for standings. just like tags for security, i
think those are nothing more than a 'get out of jail free
card' for actions that should merit some
consequences. in the past characters use to be
accountable for their actions in-game, now most
everything has been dumbed down and turned into
easy mode for the instant gratification crowd.anyway,
thanks again for the reply and good luck in the
upcoming election.dmc

until the glorious day that ccp puts you on payroll,
you'll have my vote. your tools are amazing, your
proposals are excellent; and you should be a sure
fixture on this csm and future csms.*tips hat*
this guy is the real deal and the breath of fresh air
that the csm needs....vote afropty for csm
                                                         1
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes will you propose to ccp pertaining to game
mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to you in
the upcoming csm election.dmc
firts at all ty for you question. second well everything
we do on this game it give us consecuenses, but the
point is, if i understand correctly, how we can fixed.
well just start doing more missions i know it takes a
lot of time but probably it would an a good idea trade
standings with concord.
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes will you propose to ccp pertaining to game
mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to you in
the upcoming csm election.dmc
well as i remember when i started the game, i didn't
know anything about standings at all. so i would say
faction standings need to be explained more to new
players. i had zero idea that running missions for one
faction killed your standings for another. i think
maybe a tutorial to explain it and to explain how to fix
your standings that was built into the game would be
a big help.
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes would you propose to ccp pertaining to
game mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to
you in the upcoming csm election.dmc
hi roedynwhere do you stand on allowing stabbed
ships in fw plexes?how about adding suspect timers
to any ship that enter a plex after all you are entering
miltiary base in a miltiary vessel ?t4 /t5 payouts for
killing war targets what ever the tier is?how about a
clone discount to replace the one we lost on medical
clones?
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes would you propose to ccp pertaining to
game mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to
you in the upcoming csm election.dmc
hello,i'm now running for csm (xii) for the first time.
check out my candidate page too. here is why you
should vote for me: my personality about problems: i
have really high motivation to understand and
analyse problems and mechanics i want to find ways
to make it easier to find others to play with i think eve
should be easy to understand, but hard to master
problems are rarely simple and we need better
analysis and conversation so we can find solutions
my platform is not about the changes that should be
made or things i would push for ccp. i'm here to give
you my skills on communication, problem analyzing
and finding solutions. i have strong background from
wormholes, but i drive to understand game
phenomenons in all other areas too. i love to find out
why things work as they do and why people do what
they do.while i'm relatively new to the game i excel at
finding the small details and understanding how
things and systems work. i often know more details
about some topics than older players (of course not
always or about everything). luckily i have
experienced pilots from all areas of the space to talk
to. basically the whole finnish community that has lot
of amazing pilots.i've mostly lived in wormhole space,
but i have tipped my toes to all other areas too. i have
deep knowledge about mechanics in wormhole
space. i have done my share of corporation
management where i have mainly focused on
recruiting and diplomacy. i like to understanding what
people really want and then use that knowledge to
help them or us.i also spend some time in null under
paisti syndicate. i learned a lot how things differ from
wormhole life. for example fleet combat has vastly
different characteristics and that is just so fascinating.
lately i have kept up with null combat via incursions
by finnish community. while i love wormholes, null
sec combat has aspects that intrigue me.in real life
i'm studying computer science in one of the top
universities in finland. i'm clearly a researcher in
nature, even though i have been working multiple
years as system administrator. lately i have gotten
back to software development and also i have done
bit of work on eve related tools (e.g. eve w-space). in
both eve and rl i like to teach others, were that about
embedded systems or eve mechanics.i'm not sure
why different candidates really want to be in csm, but
for me it's the possibility to help to make the game
better for everyone. i personally see that i'm in a
good position to gather feedback and ideas from
players in different areas of the game and my interest
of finding the real problems under what people
perceive makes me a good candidate for the csm.i
think ccps development for past few years has been
in correct direction. while there have been changes
that might seem bad or were really scary before
release, i think all of them are relative ok. i can
understand why aegis sov doesn't seem good (and it
isn't as is), but i still think it was good try and was
change in the correct direction. that area of course
requires more development and more ideas to try
out.you can find me often commenting in the eve
subreddit. i like to share the knowledge i have
gathered. i'm also active in tweetfleet slack as i like to
argue about eve stuff. if you visit fanfest, remember
to poke me so we can talk about eve. i have
understood that i'm easy to talk to and i like to listen. i
like to talk about eve, it's mechanics and how things
could be done differently.you can ask more here in
this thread or via social medias:reddit:
/u/raphendyrtweetfleet.slack.com: @raphendyr
twitter: @raphendyrevediscord:
@raphendyr#2538eve mail: raphendyr nardieuemail:
raphendyr@sudco.space (if above are not
possible)please try to keep eve related stuff to these
as you might find me from other medias too.

finding your place and working togetherthe single
most important thing in eve for a new player is to find
a group to play with. one area is of course new player
experience where ccp has done lot of good work and
is continuing to do so. huge an important part here
would be stumbling into other players when doing the
tutorials and following missions.in many fantasy
mmos you have tasks that require more than one
player to complete or some mission takes you to
single location on a map to do something (e.g. kill x
monsters) or a town. these problems that require
multiple players or locations where you stumble on to
others are really good ways to meet other players.
eve basically doesn't have similar aspects. you could
go to jita, but you don't really meet others.so we need
to find alternative ways for players to find each others
or we need to find ways to create similar behavior
into eve mechanic.some currently existing aspects
that try to be in this direction are wormhole sites and
incursions. both are best done in groups while of
course they can be done with single player with alts. i
personally would like to see more problems that
would be best solved with 3-5 players (requining
focus from all). of course we need things that can be
done solo, but we allready have lot of those. for
example null sec ratting doesn't really praise working
as a group.easy to understand, hard to masterwhen it
comes to game mechanics, missions or complexity i
prefer this simple rule: being good shouldn't come
just from knowing how things work, but from mastery
of applying that knowledge to practice.for example
missions and sites in eve are known before (and all
stats are in wikis/guides), thus they have nothing
hard as long as you know how to google. in this area i
love the development around mining operations and
the ai.in wormholes there are a lot of known and
many not so known small details that when known
can help you a lot. some of these things might be
bugs and some are just how this game is
implemented. for example one can keep his
wormhole system disconnected from rest of the
cluster as long as he likes, presuming no incoming
connections appear with someone coming in from
those. while i benefit a lot of these i don't think hidden
things are good for eve in long run nor are they
interesting.of course knowledge is required for one to
master it and i for sure like that eve is one of the
hardest games i have ever played. good example of
mastering knowledge is good fleet commanding. best
null sec fcs can place their own fleet in correct
position against the enemy and force the enemy to
make mistakes. that is absolutely beautiful when
executed well. basic knowledge of why these fleets
work as they do isn't really complicated, but using
that knowledge to predict what the enemy will do is
the mastery part.so i think all game mechanics
should be simple to understand and the information
should be enough clear from the game, but to apply
that knowledge should require skill.real problems are
rarely simpleafter some years working in it support i
have learned that people often come to ask action for
a solution they have. often after delving into the
problem it can be seen that the solution the person
had wasn't really the good one for his real problem. i
think people tend to simplify problems and then
choosing the first solution that comes to mind.using
interesting topic of cloaky campers that comes up in
reddit time to time as an example. commonly the
solution presented is to turn off the cloak module in
some way e.g. using service in structures, consuming
fuel or capacitor. of course these kind of changes
would be huge especially for the wormholes and
exploration.for this solution there are at least two
underlying problems it tries to solve. in null you are in
huge danger from the cynos. if some cloaked ship
can light a cyno next to you, you are most likely dead.
also as far as i know the neutral ships affect the sov
indexes in some way (at least indirectly).so is the real
problem the cloak module or combination of cloak
and cyno? or even interceptor with cyno? or simply
the cyno?the point here is that even if i would best
represent wormhole space, i try my best to think all of
areas of space when looking for solutions. i also try to
think about problems from different perspectives and
players points of views. problems aren't simple and
so aren't the solutions.
more:eve nt interview
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes will you propose to ccp pertaining to game
mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to you in
the upcoming csm election.dmc
currently those have basically no point and the time i
heard ccp affinity had great plans for corp/faction
standing i liked it.i personally would prefer they would
have meaningful aspect in the game. of course this is
really hard problem. if one would have high standing
towards gallente they would have low standing (or
negative) towards caldari. and as we know jita is the
biggest trade hub it would make for those characters
impossible to go there. of course they could use alts,
but i don't think that is nice out come.sure the
purpose for them needs to be meaningful, but not
restrictive. the choice to have high standing for some
needs to give such a reward that you choose to do so
with the penalty of losing standing towards to other
faction.in other aspect. wormholers often use hisec to
travel between wormhole chains. those that have low
faction standings make it sometimes difficult as their
presence in some systems is problematic and they
for example can't wait on a gate before entering the
k-space system leading towards to wormhole.on the
other hand e.g. low sec area could introduce more
interesting things. presuming one could have positive
standing towards pirate faction too, then one roaming
in low sec could have pirate ships repairing him when
fighting empire faction ships for example.so i would
first look what we can make with those mining
operations and future npc that come after those. i
think the most interesting mechanics are there in
short term.

thanks for the reply but you didn't really give an
answer to my question, other than you think they
currently have no meaningful point in-game and are
rather restrictive. this game was founded with the
premise of having a balance on 'risk vs reward' and
'actions vs consequences'. it takes time for players to
ruin their faction standings and as such it should also
take time for players to repair those standings. in the
past characters were accountable for their actions in-
game, now most everything has been dumbed down
and turned into easy mode for the instant gratification
crowd.now i agree there was a time long ago when
having negative faction standings prohibited players
from enjoying all aspects of the game. that myth was
due to players just accepting that consequence as
fact instead of actually searching for a remedy to
correct that situation. course the process of standings
repair should have been implemented to be more
intuitive within the game instead of being so
obscure.unfortunately ccp doesn't like to present
things in black & white. they prefer various shades of
gray and enjoy seeing the player base figure things
out on their own. ccp distributes the content
throughout the game for players to find and put the
pieces together. players then share that info with the
community. that's what makes this game great. i
know because i use to be one of those players who
felt victimized by negative faction standings until i
decided to do something about it. after 3 months of
research in 2010, i created and shared the 'faction
standing repair plan' ('the plan') with the eve online
community. time and time again it proved itself to the
playerbase that it not only easily and quickly repaired
negative faction standings, it also helped boost
positive faction standings as well.one of the main
points for having high faction standings was the
ability to anchor pos in high security systems. granted
that aspect of faction standing game mechanic was
removed by ccp which in my opinion was a huge
mistake. another point for having high faction
standing is reduced broker fees as well as reduced
refining fees in npc stations.anyway, i'm sure we can
all agree there's a few game mechanics that
definitely need to be revised, including the one
pertaining to faction standings. i just wanted to know
what your stance is for that topic.thanks again for the
reply.dmc
we'll, i don't have simple solutions for the problem. i
only have the overall picture i can use to commend
ccp about the ideas they have and to filter and
continue ideas the player base has.so in simple
terms i support faction standings and there should be
meaningful purpose for them instead of removing
them fully.those were both quite logical reasons, but
in the end how meaningful they were? corporation
that anchors a pos normally has at least one person
that has enough standings for some faction or they
would use another corporations service for it. for sure
it created player to player service, but did that make
game more rich or not?as i tried to explain above,
problems are rarely so simple there would be clear or
simple solutions. in this area i'm personally ok that
we focus on those features that could in the long run
use and benefit from the faction standings (e.g.
mining operations and ai).one area where faction
standings could also play role is smuggling. i would
love to see more reason and methods for smuggling.
one example is items that would be contraband in
some areas of space. e.g. amarr could ban
autocannons.
thanks for the reply.i agree that faction standings
should have a more meaningful purpose in game
play. in my opinion ccp made a big mistake when
they removed the need to have positive faction
standings to anchor pos in high sec space. having
that requirement made faction standings mean
something more instead of just a way to access
agents or to get lower broker fees. now i would love
to see more content pertaining to positive faction
standings be added to the game. however at this
time my inquiry is based on the negative effects of
faction standings to the playerbase. since it takes
time for players to ruin their faction standings then it
should also take some time to repair those standings.
unfortunately that info is basically nonexistent in-
game when it should actually be readily available and
easily understood by players.over the past 7 years
the 'faction standing repair plan' has helped
countless amount of players in the forums to rectify
what seemed like an unsolvable issue. in my opinion
players need more options available to repair
negative faction standings then what i've listed in that
guide. in fact most of those event agents can only be
accessed once in the characters life. there's a lot of
players in-game who don't read the forums and don't
know that guide exists. they've basically accepted the
fact they're cut off from engaging in available content
due to negative faction standings. repairing negative
standings is a big task even for experienced players
who are familiar with 'the plan'. new players who
haven't learned the game yet can easily mess up
their faction standings without even knowing it right
from the start, resulting in no access to half of empire
space.anyway, i think all players should have the
option in-game to gain diplomatic immunity with the
empire factions. the fact that the info pertaining to
faction standing repair is hidden from players in-
game is the reason for my post. after 7 years of
helping players in the forums to repair negative
faction standings, i just wanted to provide some
feedback through the csm for ccp to consider.i
believe these options would definitely help all players
in-game.faction standing repair process be
implemented in-game and be very intuitive, not
obscure (tutorial perhaps).changes to faction
standings will notify players with on screen pop up
message (option to deactivate).actions that would
cause negative faction standing trigger on screen
pop up warning (option to deactivate).all anti-empire
mission briefings have a warning informing players
those missions will incur negative faction
standings.implement tags for empire standings in-
game based on similar game mechanics as tags for
security.add npc agents to in-game agent finder for
faction standing repair (similar to proposal in my
forum signature).once again good luck with the
upcoming election.dmc
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes will you propose to ccp pertaining to game
mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to you in
the upcoming csm election.dmc
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes would you propose to ccp pertaining to
game mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to
you in the upcoming csm election.dmc
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes would you propose to ccp pertaining to
game mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to
you in the upcoming csm election.dmc
nope don't vote for this guy! what a douche! i would
not even have him in my corp. good luck thief hope
karma catches up to you.signatured removed, ccp
phantom
lmao and your kb looks so much better
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes would you propose to ccp pertaining to
game mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to
you in the upcoming csm election.dmc
what insight have you gained from your previous
experiences in eve? specifically the following:
tried fixing the broken links for you.
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes will you propose to ccp pertaining to game
mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to you in
the upcoming csm election.dmc
essentially they are part of a content access
management system. i feel that they may be
underutilized from the perspective that there isn't a
massive variety and difficulty of content that those
standings allow you access to.i'm not a mission
runner and i don't currently have a lot of use for
faction standings. the only change i would be willing
to push at this moment is that it would be great to
have 10 - 20 times more unique content in those
areas. i'm all about pushing the envelope, so bring
capital spawns or lairs into it. make it intense, make it
a challenge.thanks for the question. fly safe o7.
thanks for the reply.high faction standings affect more
than just mission running. it also reduces broker
market fees and reprocessing fees in npc stations. in
the past there use to be a bit more content pertaining
to faction standings as well which ccp removed. the
main one being the need to have high faction
standings to anchor a pos in empire space. i agree
there should be more challenging content added to
the game. in my opinion it should pertain to faction
standings.anyway, thanks again for the reply and
good luck with the upcoming election.dmc
link added for talking in stations interview. i am very
thankful for matterall's time and a great conversation.
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes would you propose to ccp pertaining to
game mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to
you in the upcoming csm election.dmc
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes would you propose to ccp pertaining to
game mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to
you in the upcoming csm election.dmc
hello,gotta say i like your platform, especially
pertaining to data centers and cosmos.my question -
what is your viewpoint regarding faction standings
and as a csm member, what changes would you
propose to ccp pertaining to game mechanics for
faction standings ?good luck to you in the upcoming
csm election.dmc
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes will you propose to ccp pertaining to game
mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to you in
the upcoming csm election.dmc
how do you plan to help include deaf/blind players
into the game further? what tools do you think can be
used to do this outside lobbying corps/alliances/blocs
to review their comms strategies (no comms/mumble,
no entry) which is the biggest obstacle to deaf/blind
players, for instance?
i think they could get some love and maybe be more
meaning full other then getting missions etc. other
then that i would be really interested in what the
community thinks that needs to be done and bring
that to the csm discussions.
well with blind people i think its going to be hard.
spoke with a few people who have bad sight and they
really wanted to have more options to increase
certain fonts / colours to make it easier for them to
read.
hey, at least you're honest :) a rare thing in a
politician.
hello,if you're really serious about being elected to
csm then here's my question - what is your viewpoint
regarding faction standings and as a csm member,
what changes will you propose to ccp pertaining to
game mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to
you in the upcoming csm election.dmc
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes would you propose to ccp pertaining to
game mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to
you in the upcoming csm election.dmc
hello,my question - what is your viewpoint regarding
faction standings and as a csm member, what
changes would you propose to ccp pertaining to
game mechanics for faction standings ?good luck to
you in the upcoming csm election.dmc

the podcast "talking in stations lounge" is hosting sit-
downs with some of the csm candidates. 25
candidates sit down to talk about why they love eve
and how they want to help it through csm. 2
roundtables (eu and us) enjoy this great discussion
series.audio 30 min podcast episodes
(recommended)video youtube recordingseve news
chief imperium.news (formerly tmc) | host talking in
stations show
a lot of my friends dont play this game because dont
know english, if that change more people come to
new eden, sure, ccp can read the numbers, the size
of the spanish players is growing, and the prospect of
new players are really big.
+100!/signed.
+1 apoyen chicas
+1 me too
<U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD>
<U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD>
i love the idea: se habla espa<U+FFFD>ol. but it
gonna be hard to make this happened. might be they
need real numbers more than the fact of saying "a
lot", "second speaked n the world" and so forth. you
might have to see this from business side and have
also study cases of how this have work for other
games. "amateurs talk about tactics, but
professionals study logistics." - gen. robert h. barrow,
usmc (commandant of the marine corps) noted in
1980**strong text**
it's been suggested a number of times. it likely will be
suggested a number of times more.but localising a
client is more than just 'translate all the text'. (that's
around 61 thousand pieces of text. which will
generally increase)you also need the marketing in
that language. support. etc etc. so there are on going
costs.at that point you have the business decision.
will i make more money doing this, with the increased
costs, then if i don't. it's not like everyone who speaks
spanish as a first language will not play eve. there
are some who do. is the difference enough?(it's not a
question i can answer. but ccp is a business. the
answer has to come down to cold hard cash on
something like this.)
meh, your post is equivalent to screaming "there's a
fire!" at a bbq. if you can't take the challenge level of
this game, i would suggest moving to games like
hopscotch and tiddly winks. this game is and (if i have
my way) will never be for the 4 button combo instant
gratification player. this game involves patience,
planning, and persistence so either adapt or die.
ms goodymake does have a point, but i'd argue the
cause-and-effect are backwards. there is a huge
amount of stuff being produced in game. huge. go
look at ccp quandt's report for january. there was a
massive surge in in-game production without a
similar surge in destruction.the decline, imo, is
related to changes to hs along the lines ms
goodymake is suggesting--i.e. ms goodymake's
suggestions will not help, but will exacerbate the
downward slide.
possitive mention again last night on eve prosper
hosted by lockefox
thx and here some thoughts on faction standings:*
first: i would bring back the eveo wiki (there was this
great guide, i think "faction repair guide"), so players
would have a chance of knowing what is going on*
second: factions seem to be in slow decline, as far as
i see it. so i would argue that either, we make them
meaningful or eliminate them for parts of the game or
over all (like epic arks, as another candidate (think
djavin?! from eve-u) suggested) - but at the moment
it seems, ccp is slowly fading them out...*so what
would you like to see done with standings?
thanks for the reply.yeah i agree. evelopedia was a
great resource, despite ccp and others saying it was
too far out of date. in fact it was mostly ccp's data
base part of it that was really outdated. getting rid of it
was a huge mistake. also thanks, i'm the one who
created and shared the 'faction standing repair plan'
with the playerbase back in 2010. in my opinion
players need more options available to repair
negative faction standings then what i've listed in 'the
plan', especially since most of those event agents
can only be accessed once in the characters life. i
believe faction standings should be more meaningful
than just to get missions. i'd like to see more content
pertaining to faction standings be added to the game
but at this time my inquiry is based more on the
effects of negative faction standings. this game was
founded on the premise of having a balance on 'risk
vs reward' and 'actions vs consequences'. it takes
time for players to ruin faction standings and it should
also take some time to repair those standings. in the
past characters use to be accountable for their
actions in-game, now most everything has been
dumbed down and turned into easy mode for the
instant gratification crowd. that's something i don't
want to see happen to faction standings.currently the
in-game aspects of faction standings : positive faction
standings are the only way to access cosmos agents
(one time access). positive faction and corporation
standings are needed to access research agents. all
other agents only require minimal amount of faction
standing for access (-2.00 or higher standing). high
faction standings reduce market broker fees and
reprocessing fees in npc stations. at -5.00 or lower
faction standing, empire npc's will attack when in
their space. positive faction standings use to be
needed to anchor a pos in high sec space until ccp
removed that aspect. i believe that was another big
mistake. anyway, a lot of players in-game don't even
read the forums so they don't know about the 'faction
standing repair plan'. in fact repairing negative faction
standings is a big task just for experienced players.
new players who haven't even learned the game yet
can easily mess up their faction standings right from
the start without even knowing it, resulting in no
access to half of empire space.these are some
options i think would help players in-game.faction
standing repair process be implemented in-game to
be very intuitive, not obscure (tutorial
perhaps).changes to faction standings notify players
with on screen pop up message (option to
deactivate).actions that would cause negative faction
standing trigger on screen pop up warning (option to
deactivate).all anti-empire mission briefings have a
warning to inform players those missions will incur
negative faction standings.implement tags for
standings in-game based on similar game mechanics
as tags for security.add npc agents to in-game agent
finder for faction standing repair (similar to proposal
in my forum signature).once again good luck with the
upcoming election.dmc

yeah, thats a good question. would be nice to have
plexing raise faction standings
eve is very much a reactive game, if you do
something wrong, the game will punish you for it, i
think personally this is a very reasonable, there are
ways of repairing sec static.
thank you for the reply,once again good luck in the
upcoming election.dmc
hi there, can you clarify the question? do you mean
in relation to getting a bad faction standing and then
having to repair it again?
i think faction standings have lost a lot of value (no
longer needed for pos anchoring, jump clones etc.
their only purpose atm is for missions and market tax
reduction). i'm not sure how to make them useful
again without them being gimmicky. contributer to
eve is easy:
thanks for the reply. yes i agree, faction standings
have lost a lot of value and should be more
meaningful than just to get missions. ccp never
should have removed the need of faction standings to
anchor a pos in high sec space. in my opinion that
was a big mistake.currently the in-game aspects of
faction standings :positive faction standings are the
only way to access cosmos agents (one time
access).positive faction and corporation standings
are needed to access research agents.all other
agents only require minimal amount of faction
standing for access (-2.00 or higher standing).high
faction standings reduce market broker fees and
reprocessing fees in npc stations.at -5.00 or lower
faction standing, empire npc's will attack when in
their space.this game was founded on the premise of
having a balance on 'risk vs reward' and 'actions vs
consequences'. it takes time for players to ruin faction
standings and as such it should also take some time
to repair those standings. in the past characters use
to be accountable for their actions in-game, now
most everything has been dumbed down and turned
into easy mode for the instant gratification crowd.
that's something i don't want to see happen to faction
standings.i created and shared the 'faction standing
repair plan' with the playerbase back in 2010. in my
opinion players need more options available to repair
negative faction standings then what i've listed in 'the
plan' since most of those event agents can only be
accessed once in the characters life. most players in-
game don't even read the forums so they don't know
that guide is available. in fact repairing negative
faction standings is extremely tough on new players
who haven't even learned the game yet since they
can easily mess up their faction standings right from
the start without actually knowing it.i think the
process of faction standing repair should be
implemented in-game to be more intuitive instead of
being so obscure. all changes to faction standings
should be brought to the players attention with an on
screen pop up message. any action that would cause
negative faction standing should trigger an on screen
pop up warning (with option to deactivate). all anti-
empire missions should have a warning to alert
players that accepting and completing those missions
will incur negative faction standings. an idea
presented by others is to have tags for standings.
personally i don't really like the idea but if it's similar
to tags for security, i guess it would be acceptable.
lastly ccp could add another group of npc agents to
the in-game agent finder strictly for faction standing
repair, sorta like the proposal i have listed in my
forum signature.anyway, thanks again for the reply
and good luck in the upcoming election.dmc
it's been three weeks now since you said that you
would posting a video in two weeks. not really trying
to throw a stone, but should you really be running for
csm if you can make your own deadlines?
#deletetheweak
no it's not. some ui facelift - yeah, sure. but dont
touch the system core. it's very robust, it survived
citadel and ascension, please dont ruin it now. i
honestly dont think ccp has developers pool that can
work with such features atm. let them first clean the
mess they made in the mineral market. and we're yet
to witness the maihem in moongoo. also, combining
engineering complexes with crius production was not
smooth at all. if you add pi on top of that, it'd be a
perfect storm.just dont do it.
no problem.having negative faction standings affects
a lot of players in-game and repairing those standings
is definitely a large task to complete. most players in-
game don't read the forums so they don't even know
about the 'faction standing repair plan' guide. also
new players can easily mess up their faction
standings right at the start without even knowing
it.these are some options i think would help players
in-game.faction standing repair be implemented in-
game to be very intuitive, not obscure (tutorial
perhaps).changes to faction standings be brought to
players attention with on screen pop up message
(option to deactivate).any action that would cause
negative faction standing will trigger on screen pop
up warning (option to deactivate).all anti-empire
missions should have a warning alerting players that
those missions will incur negative faction
standings.your idea to have tags for standings is
acceptable if similar to tags for security.ccp add npc
agents to in-game agent finder for faction standing
repair (similar to proposal in my forum signature).just
wanted to pass that along to you. once again good
luck with the up-coming election.dmc
fw standings are really gimicky and i know this
because i participated in the capture of lad. fw can be
fun but the way standings play a part is in need of a
total reworking.

thanks for the reply,i was actually referring to the
effect of faction standings in all aspects of the game.
this game was based on having a balance in 'risk vs
reward' and 'actions vs consequences'. currently the
only way to repair negative faction standings is to
grind missions. it takes time for players to ruin faction
standings and as such it should also take some time
to repair those standings. in the past characters use
to be accountable for their actions in-game, now
most everything has been dumbed down and turned
into easy mode for the instant gratification crowd.
that's something i don't want to see happen to faction
standings. currently the in-game aspects of faction
standings :positive faction standings are the only way
to access cosmos agents (one time access).positive
faction and corporation standings are needed to
access research agents.all other agents only require
minimal amount of faction standing for access (-2.00
or higher standing).high faction standings reduce
market broker fees and reprocessing fees in npc
stations.at -5.00 or lower faction standing, empire
npc's will attack when in their space.i created and
shared the 'faction standing repair plan' with the
playerbase back in 2010. in my opinion players need
more options available to repair negative faction
standings then what i've listed in 'the plan'. most of
those event agents can only be accessed once in the
characters life. a lot of players in-game don't even
read the forums so they don't know that guide is
available. in fact repairing negative faction standings
is extremely tough on new players who haven't even
learned the game yet. they can easily mess up their
faction standings right from the start without actually
knowing it.i think the process of faction standing
repair should be implemented in-game to be more
intuitive instead of being so obscure. all changes to
faction standings should be brought to the players
attention with an on screen pop up message. any
action that would cause negative faction standing
should trigger an on screen pop up warning (with
option to deactivate). all anti-empire missions should
have a warning to alert players that accepting and
completing those missions will incur negative faction
standings. an idea presented by others is to have
tags for standings. personally i don't really like the
idea but if it's similar to tags for security, i guess it
would be acceptable. lastly ccp could add another
group of npc agents to the in-game agent finder
strictly for faction standing repair, sorta like the
proposal i have listed in my forum signature.thanks
again and good luck in the upcoming election.dmc
the easy fix would be a tag system like we have for
sec status but i am pretty sure ccp wants to re-do the
standing system overall at some point. there is a lot of
fruity math happening that could be better too.
this bothers me a little bit. not the idea itself, but that
you proposed it, as it has already been in the game
for at least a decade. i'm starting to become
concerned about the knowledge limits of the
"carebear candidate."
given the complaint about excess in trit and pyre in
another thread, you could kill two birds with one post
and suggest that these be used as fuels for the
bubbles. an anchor that sinks in neat
package.miner's curry:one cup of rice in the
cooker.cook small onion, diced, into the pan until it
starts to brown. add 2 cans of tuna (i use 185g cans x
2) having strained out the brine. mash is down a little
bit to mix in the onion and cook for a while.one cup of
full cream milk, add a heaped tablespoon of curry
powder, one level tablespoon cornflower, one stock-
cube (random flavor) added crushed. bar-mix or
stick-blender that concoction. then pour over the
cooked tuna, and stir in. heat on low until curry sauce
is fully absorbed by the fish. serves two. whenever
someone tries "content" to miners, give them some
curry.
unless i've gone totally senile (always possible) the
tags in game currently are single shot only agents
related to the old cosmos mission system, not
reusable agents.that said i don't like the instant
nature of tags currently and would love it if they ran
like a skill queue, where you 'fuel' it by handing in the
right tags, and then over time (a week or two) it raises
your standings to zero or when you run out of tags.
that way it's not an instant 'free to go and gank again',
but if you are actually trying to change your play-style
it does let you transition to a new style.anyway, sorry
steve, getting a little off track here though it's
something i'd love you to put forward to ccp as a
possible mechanic, very much enjoyed your work and
communication over the last few years.
you're talking about the data centers.they're single
shot, and have issues raising standing to 0, by
themselves.this is why the commonly referenced
'faction standing repair plan' doesn't just tell people to
do them. while you can do the low level ones by
themselves, the higher level ones require standing to
run. if you don't have it, go enjoy your grind to get
it.aside from that, they're in the highsec space of the
people who you need to repair it with. which can
make the first few somewhat more difficult to deal
with, as you're having to run from faction police while
doing so.
hi steve,i agree. repairing negative faction standings
is definitely a large task to complete. most players in-
game don't read the forums so they don't even know
about that guide. also as i said before, new players
can easily mess up their faction standings right at the
start without even knowing it.these are some options i
think would help players in-game.faction standing
repair be implemented in-game to be very intuitive,
not obscure (tutorial perhaps). changes to faction
standings be brought to players attention with on
screen pop up message (option to deactivate). any
action that would cause negative faction standing will
trigger on screen pop up warning (option to
deactivate). all anti-empire missions should have a
warning alerting players that those missions will incur
negative faction standings.your idea to have tags for
standings is acceptable if similar to tags for security.
ccp add npc agents to in-game agent finder for
faction standing repair (similar to proposal in my
forum signature).just wanted to pass that along to
you. once again good luck with the up-coming
election.dmc
thank you for the reply.yes, this game was based on
having a balance in 'risk vs reward' and 'actions vs
consequences'. and yes, you're right, currently the
only way to repair negative faction standings is to
grind missions. it takes time for players to ruin faction
standings and as such it should also take some time
to repair those standings. in the past characters use
to be accountable for their actions in-game, now
most everything has been dumbed down and turned
into easy mode for the instant gratification crowd.
that's something i don't want to see happen to faction
standings. however i do like your idea of trading with
concord to repair negative faction standings. currently
the in-game aspects of faction standings :positive
faction standings are the only way to access cosmos
agents (one time access).positive faction and
corporation standings are needed to access research
agents.all other agents only require minimal amount
of faction standing for access (-2.00 or higher
standing).high faction standings reduce market
broker fees and reprocessing fees in npc stations.at -
5.00 or lower faction standing, empire npc's will
attack when in their space.i created and shared the
'faction standing repair plan' with the playerbase
back in 2010. in my opinion players need more
options available to repair negative faction standings
then what i've listed in 'the plan' since most of those
event agents can only be accessed once in the
characters life. most players in-game don't even read
the forums so they don't know that guide is available.
in fact repairing negative faction standings is
extremely tough on new players who haven't even
learned the game yet since they can easily mess up
their faction standings right from the start without
actually knowing it.i think the process of faction
standing repair should be implemented in-game to be
more intuitive instead of being so obscure. all
changes to faction standings should be brought to the
players attention with an on screen pop up message.
any action that would cause negative faction standing
should trigger an on screen pop up warning (with
option to deactivate). all anti-empire missions should
have a warning to alert players that accepting and
completing those missions will incur negative faction
standings. an idea presented by others is to have
tags for standings. personally i don't really like the
idea but if it's similar to tags for security, i guess it
would be acceptable. lastly ccp could add another
group of npc agents to the in-game agent finder
strictly for faction standing repair, sorta like the
proposal i have listed in my forum signature.thanks
again and good luck in the upcoming election.dmc

                                                        1
good afternoon if someone has any question like
others already do even if is not on my worklist, feel
free to ask. i would like to answer.if someone want to
ask i will stay today on ts squad v lobby. feel free to
go.ts addresssquadv.teamspeak.de
thanks for the reply,i agree 100%.this game was
based on having a balance in 'risk vs reward' and
'actions vs consequences'. currently the only way to
repair negative faction standings is to grind missions.
it takes time for players to ruin faction standings and
as such it should also take some time to repair those
standings. in the past characters use to be
accountable for their actions in-game, now most
everything has been dumbed down and turned into
easy mode for the instant gratification crowd. that's
something i don't want to see happen to faction
standings. currently the in-game aspects of faction
standings :positive faction standings are the only way
to access cosmos agents (one time access).positive
faction and corporation standings are needed to
access research agents.all other agents only require
minimal amount of faction standing for access (-2.00
or higher standing).high faction standings reduce
market broker fees and reprocessing fees in npc
stations.at -5.00 or lower faction standing, empire
npc's will attack when in their space.i created and
shared the 'faction standing repair plan' with the
playerbase back in 2010. in my opinion players need
more options available to repair negative faction
standings then what i've listed in 'the plan'. most of
those event agents can only be accessed once in the
characters life. a lot of players in-game don't even
read the forums so they don't know that guide is
available. in fact repairing negative faction standings
is extremely tough on new players who haven't even
learned the game yet. they can easily mess up their
faction standings right from the start without actually
knowing it.faction standing repair should be
implemented in-game to be more intuitive instead of
being so obscure. all changes to faction standings
should be brought to the players attention with an on
screen pop up message. any action that would cause
negative faction standing should trigger an on screen
pop up warning (with option to deactivate). all anti-
empire missions should have a warning to alert
players that accepting and completing those missions
will incur negative faction standings. an idea
presented by others is to have tags for standings.
personally i don't really like the idea but if it's similar
to tags for security, i guess it would be acceptable.
lastly ccp could add another group of npc agents to
the in-game agent finder strictly for faction standing
repair, sorta like the proposal i have listed in my
forum signature.thanks again and good luck in the
upcoming election.dmc
i personally only ever did distribution missions
because i didnt want any factions standing to go
down :di flew caldari distribution missions and the
epic arc (yes, that gives negative standing but well...)
and th soe epic arc to get caldari standings so my
taxes in jita would go down.i dont have any intentions
to change anything related to this because i barely do
anything in hs that would affect me which in turn
means i dont see any issues with it.if you point them
out to me i surely will find an opinion on the matter
which i happily share with ccp :)
thanks for the reply.this game was based on having a
balance in 'risk vs reward' and 'actions vs
consequences' which makes this game great.
currently the only way to repair negative faction
standings is to grind missions. it takes time for
players to ruin faction standings and it should take
some time to repair those standings. in the past
characters use to be accountable for their actions in-
game, now most everything has been dumbed down
and turned into easy mode for the instant gratification
crowd. that's something i don't want to see happen to
faction standings. currently the in-game aspects of
faction standings :positive faction standings are the
only way to access cosmos agents (one time
access).positive faction and corporation standings
are needed to access research agents.all other
agents only require minimal amount of faction
standing for access (-2.00 or higher standing).high
faction standings reduce market broker fees and
reprocessing fees in npc stations.at -5.00 or lower
faction standing, empire npc's will attack when in
their space.in my opinion ccp made a big mistake
when they removed the need to have faction
standings to anchor pos in high sec space. i'd like to
see more content pertaining to faction standings be
added to the game but at this time my inquiry is
based more on the effects of negative faction
standings.i created and shared the 'faction standing
repair plan' with the playerbase back in 2010. in my
opinion players need more options available to repair
negative faction standings then what i've listed in 'the
plan'. most of those event agents can only be
accessed once in the characters life. a lot of players
in-game don't even read the forums so they don't
know that guide is available. in fact repairing negative
faction standings is a big task for experienced
players. new players who haven't even learned the
game yet can easily mess up their faction standings
right from the start without even knowing it, resulting
in no access to half of empire space.anyway these
are some options i think would help players in-
game.faction standing repair process be
implemented in-game to be very intuitive, not obscure
(tutorial perhaps).changes to faction standings notify
players with on screen pop up message (option to
deactivate).actions that would cause negative faction
standing trigger on screen pop up warning (option to
deactivate).all anti-empire mission briefings have a
warning to inform players those missions will incur
negative faction standings.implement tags for
standings in-game based on similar game mechanics
as tags for security.add npc agents to in-game agent
finder for faction standing repair (similar to proposal
in my forum signature).once again good luck with the
upcoming election.dmc
vote for folks you feel would do the best job, not who
would get vote brigaded :p would you mind to clarify
this? do you mean in relation to faction warfare and
the main four races, or in relation to
corporations/missions and the effect of the
standings?
thanks for the reply.just the general overall aspect of
faction standings in-game which basically affects
everyone. i just wanted to know your viewpoint about
it and what changes you'd propose.dmc
... that's not a plan.if it's not a priority, just come out
and say it. it's such a small market segment to try to
appeal to, so i wouldn't expect much effort in that
area, except that the entire client in general should
be more usable than it is, regardless a person's
condition. is that a priority at all? to have a better
client in general?
thanks for the reply.yeah i agree. faction standings
should be more meaningful than just to get missions.
they use to be needed to anchor a pos in high sec
space until ccp removed that aspect. i think that was
a big mistake. currently in-game, faction standings
are the only way to access cosmos agents (one time
access). faction standings and corporation standings
are needed to access research agents. all other
agents only require a minimal amount of faction
standing for access (-2.00 or higher standing). also
high faction standings reduce market broker fees and
reprocessing fees in npc stations. at -5.00 or lower
faction standing, empire npc's will attack when in
their space. those are the in-game aspects of faction
standings.this game was founded on the premise of
having a balance on 'risk vs reward' and 'actions vs
consequences'. it takes time for players to ruin faction
standings and as such it should also take some time
to repair those standings. in the past characters use
to be accountable for their actions in-game, now
most everything has been dumbed down and turned
into easy mode for the instant gratification crowd.
that's something i don't want to see happen to faction
standings.now i know it's tough on new players who
haven't learned the game yet, they can easily mess
up their faction standings right from the start without
actually knowing it. i was one of those players
victimized by negative faction standings until i
decided to do something about it. after 3 months of
research in 2010, i created and shared the 'faction
standing repair plan' with the eve online community.
in my opinion players need more options available to
repair negative faction standings then what i've listed
in 'the plan', especially since most of those event
agents can only be accessed once in the characters
life. i think the process of faction standing repair
should be implemented in-game to be more intuitive
instead of being so obscure. all changes to faction
standings should be brought to the players attention
with an on screen pop up message. any action that
would cause negative faction standing should trigger
an on screen pop up warning (with option to
deactivate). all anti-empire missions should have a
warning to alert players that accepting and completing
those missions will incur negative faction standings.
an idea presented by others is to have tags for
standings. personally i don't really like the idea but if
it's similar to tags for security, i guess it would be
acceptable. lastly ccp could add another group of npc
agents to the in-game agent finder strictly for faction
standing repair, sorta like the proposal i have listed in
my forum signature.anyway, thanks again for the
reply and good luck in the upcoming election.dmc

i look forward to the addition of more mechanics that
take advantage of the faction mechanics such as the
new npc mining fleets etc.i also think this has some
opportunity for standings to become less static and
have both your immediate impact and long term
standing taken into account.i am however quite
happy with how they currently sit, meaning that it is
both not my place to develop game mechanics, and i
have no wish to encourage prioritization of this
subset of mechanics.thanks for your question<3
thank you for the reply,once again good luck in the
upcoming election.dmc
thank you very much for doing this. outstanding work
for the community!
quiero eve en espa<U+FFFD>ol.
#quieroeveenespa<U+FFFD>ol
these localize spanish threads have popped at least
once more then what the op as listed, but i can only
remember once. honestly thing is, if ccp can make a
profit off localizing the game for spanish speaking
players, that would be pretty great all around,
however i honestly don't think that the demand for it
would be high enough. even spain does not rank top
10 of internet usage sitting at 71%. other places like
mexico is 43% and chile is 65. compared to english,
which the usa is 84.2 and the uk is 89%. france is
81% australia is 83%. and japan is 86. also you have
to look at the culture of the speakers of sad
language. most english speaking countries are very
heavily engrossed into the gaming subculture. japan
even more so. spanish native country don't really
come to mind when i think 'gaming'. however i'd
imagine partly, french and german localization has
happened is because a lot of german and french
speak english and a second language. so maybe
that's a possibility that could work in your
favor.source:
valkin mordirc i disagree...games like lol, wot, wow
have a big presence by spanish speakers at this
moment, la and spanish speaking countries have a
very fast growth rate and potential of business in the
coming years with internet penetration growing in
+5% each year. here are some numbers of
penetration language / internet users by language /
internet penetration (% population) / world population
for this language (2016 estimate)english /
948,608,782 / 67.8 % / 1,400,052,373chinese /
751,985,224 / 53.1 % / 1,415,572,934spanish /
277,125,947 / 61.6 % / 450,235,963arabic /
168,426,690 / 43.4 % / 388,332,877portuguese /
154,525,606 / 57.9 % / 266,757,744japanese /
115,111,595 / 91.0 % / 126,464,583malay /
109,400,982 / 37.8 % / 289,702,633russian /
103,147,691 / 70.5 % / 146,358,055french /
102,171,481 / 25.9 % / 393,892,299german /
83,825,134 / 88.3 % / 94,973,85argentina, bolivia,
chile, colombia, costa rica, cuba, dominican republic,
ecuador, el salvador, equatorial guinea, guatemala,
honduras, mexico, nicaragua, panama, paraguay,
peru, puerto rico, spain, uruguay,
venezuela<U+FFFD>....just imagine 500 to 2000
active pilots of each country activating their accounts
in just a few months after a localization, plus all
native spanish speakers living other countries
interested in playing with fellow country men .
localizing a client is not that hard and support is not
that great of a deal in overhead. the big win here is
having a game that has big numbers and big content,
that will even attract more players of a already
saturated market of the existing localizations. true
this is a business decision by the part of ccp but it is
a shallow assumption to rule out a localization
without an in depth look into the possibility.
i<U+FFFD>ll go as far to say that the next big leap in
player count will be by emerging economies and
cultural diversity. here is some food for though, the
second most popular youtuber in the world is a
chiliean spanish speaker called holasoygerman
....spanish content and more than 31 million
subscribers....of the top 10 youtubers he is the only
one that has content in a language other than english
....why is that? why is he not chinnese or arab or
russian?#quieroeveenespa<U+FFFD>ol join in the
cause.
you number show the same thing i said. spanish is
lower than all the other localizations. again it's close
to english, which where did you pull from? as i would
assume that my source show english speaking users
should be higher than and your numbers show. my
source seems to allude that your numbers might be
wrong, or vise versa. a lot of the countries you
mentioned, ecuador, m<U+FFFD>xico,
per<U+FFFD>, nicaragua, panam<U+FFFD>, costa
rico the dominican republic, and uruguay do not have
high internet penetration. logically ccp could only
target spain, maybe chile, puerto rico, and venezuela.
spanish may be a popular language, it's a hell of a
useful language to know, but unfortunately just
because a language is common doesn't mean it'll be
prolific in a video game. it also depends and where it
is spoken. also i don't think saying that a business
decision is shallow. ccp needs to make profits not
losses. if they can not make a profit with spanish
localization then it hurts everyone else. including the
spanish players as no one gets updates and patches
because they need to recoup. like i said if the
demand is there. i wholeheartedly support it. but i
honestly don't think the demand is there. running for
csm however and getting voted in, would show that is
there. and i wish you the best of luck.#deletetheweak
if i vote for you, will you promise me alliance book
marks?
big bump for my #1 ballot slot
seems you're a bit indisposed at the moment to reply
so i'll just post my rebuttal now.this game was based
on having a balance in 'risk vs reward' and 'actions vs
consequences' which makes this game great.
currently the only way to repair negative faction
standings is to grind missions. it takes time for
players to ruin faction standings and it should take
some time to repair those standings. in the past
characters use to be accountable for their actions in-
game, now most everything has been dumbed down
and turned into easy mode for the instant gratification
crowd. that's something i don't want to see happen to
faction standings. currently the in-game aspects of
faction standings :positive faction standings are the
only way to access cosmos agents (one time
access).positive faction and corporation standings
are needed to access research agents.all other
agents only require minimal amount of faction
standing for access (-2.00 or higher standing).high
faction standings reduce market broker fees and
reprocessing fees in npc stations.at -5.00 or lower
faction standing, empire npc's will attack when in
their space.i think ccp made a big mistake when they
removed the need to have faction standings to
anchor pos in high sec space. i'd like to see more
content pertaining to faction standings be added to
the game but at this time my inquiry is based more on
the effects of negative faction standings.i created and
shared the 'faction standing repair plan' with the
playerbase back in 2010. in my opinion players need
more options available to repair negative faction
standings then what i've listed in 'the plan'. most of
those event agents can only be accessed once in the
characters life. a lot of players in-game don't even
read the forums so they don't know that guide is
available. in fact repairing negative faction standings
is a big task for experienced players. new players
who haven't even learned the game yet can easily
mess up their faction standings right from the start
without even knowing it, resulting in no access to half
of empire space.anyway these are some options i
think would help players in-game.faction standing
repair process be implemented in-game to be very
intuitive, not obscure (tutorial perhaps).changes to
faction standings notify players with on screen pop up
message (option to deactivate).actions that would
cause negative faction standing trigger on screen
pop up warning (option to deactivate).all anti-empire
mission briefings have a warning to inform players
those missions will incur negative faction
standings.implement tags for standings in-game
based on similar game mechanics as tags for
security.add npc agents to in-game agent finder for
faction standing repair (similar to proposal in my
forum signature).once again good luck with the
upcoming election.dmc

goddamnit, i was just typing up my response.
i quite enjoyed the discussion we had there, and
hope that you felt it was as productive as i did, even
though our overall assesment of the issues didn't
really align in that circumstance. at the end of the day
i believe that the fact that your plan exists is a
symptom of the overarching problem with standings,
in that they are incredibly complex and unintuitive to
the average player, as they're not communicated
particularly well in both terms of how they work, and
the consequences of lowering them.i wouldn't
propose any changes directly, as i don't think that's a
good way to talk to ccp on a topic like this, however i
have - as a result of you bringing it up - tried to
discuss with ccp on what they feel the intent and
value of the standings system is for the game, and
how we can better utilize it for those aims. i know
that's not the answer you're looking for, and that
you're dissapointed nothing has been changed, but
that's the reallity of the csm and how it works. at the
end of the day we're not ccp's boss and i think
anyone who is going to try and tell you that they'll
make ccp do something is not only wrong, but will
actively hurt the csm when they're on it. our job is to
give the community feedback on topics (as we have)
and provide expert knowledge on subjects that ccp
don't have the same depth of understanding that we
do.
sorry about that, wasn't sure when you'd be back.
hello jin'taan and thanks for the reply, i definitely
appreciate you taking the time to review and discuss
that proposal with me in the assembly hall. thank you
once again for doing that. i realize that csm doesn't
have any power to make ccp do anything they don't
want to do. also i agree with most everything you've
posted here. now i may be wrong but doesn't csm
also provide feedback to ccp on topics that the
community is concerned with as well ?granted there's
not a lot of players currently rage posting about
faction standings in the forums. not to sound like i
have a big ego but the reason for that is due to me
posting 'the plan' back in 2010. over the past 7 years
it has helped countless amount of players to rectify
what seemed like an unsolvable issue. because of
that i've been praised and referred to as the
'consummate faction standing expert' in the
forums.now don't get me wrong, i enjoy the eve fame
for that but as i said before, there's a lot of players in-
game who don't read the forums and don't know that
guide exists. they've basically accepted the fact
they're cut off from engaging in available content due
to negative faction standings. repairing those
standings is a big task even for experienced players
who are familiar with 'the plan'. new players who
haven't even learned the game yet can easily mess
up their faction standings without even knowing it
right from the start, resulting in no access to half of
empire space.since i'm referred to as the faction
standing expert in the forums, i just wanted to provide
some feedback through the csm for ccp to consider.
these options would definitely help players in-
game.faction standing repair process be
implemented in-game to be very intuitive, not obscure
(tutorial perhaps).changes to faction standings notify
players with on screen pop up message (option to
deactivate).actions that would cause negative faction
standing trigger on screen pop up warning (option to
deactivate).all anti-empire mission briefings have a
warning to inform players those missions will incur
negative faction standings.implement tags for
standings in-game based on similar game mechanics
as tags for security.add npc agents to in-game agent
finder for faction standing repair (similar to proposal
in my forum signature).once again good luck with the
upcoming election.dmc

stay tuned for csm roundtablet on declarations of war
podcast
my pleasure.i play in high sec. faction standings -
now that i know not to do missions that end up with
me being banished from (for example) amarr space
have actually no effect on my high sec gameplay at
all. especially now that the standings requirement for
jump clones has been removed. it is true i could
make more iskies trading at stations with better
standings, refining at stations with better standings
and manufacturing at stations with better standings...
but then there are (for example) citadels that make
me regret having wasted so much time grinding
standings out. i make more than enough iskies
without caring about standings, and the characters on
which i ground out standings are actually now more
or less sitting around so i can make more money with
skill injectors.just in case i had one of those "not
really knowing what it means" moment, i looked it
up...su-per-flu-ousadjective1. being more than is
sufficient or required; excessive. 2. unnecessary or
needless. 3. obsolete. possessing or spending more
than enough or necessary; extravagant. which i think
pretty exactly hits the nail on the head. i am sorry, i
just don't think they are as relevant as they were in
2010.that is indeed my only concern about them....
new players getting trapped into grinding after
reading outdated guides, or accidentally getting their
mains "kill on sight" by the caldari police.....i hope the
other candidates had something constructive to say
on the issue... maybe you should collate the
responses somewhere... so that people interested in
faction standings can easily reference who best to
vote for!
just posted about bumping on my blog. link is in the
signature if anyone is interested.didn't want to
reproduce it here... the forums have seen enough
posting about bumping.
thanks again kirith!putting the faction back into
faction warfare former executor templis calsf alliance
thanks for the reply.just the general overall aspect of
faction standings in-game which basically affects
everyone. i just wanted to know your viewpoint about
it and what changes you'd propose.dmc
thanks for the reply and clarification, if i get elected i'll
keep your suggestions in mind. also look out for
some interviews i did on podcasts such as statecraft,
talking in stations and about to record declarations of
war! :) contributer to eve is easy:
pi does need improvement overall in my opinion; and
many others do agree as well. i don't see what i
mentioned ruining it, but a few things that could
improve it's overall 'quality of life' - which that said
tho, i do agree that we haven't seen yet what the new
moongo changes are going to do to the moongoo
market and i'm still very anxious to hear more details
on the drilling platforms as we don't have too much
info on them just yet.
thank you once again, and for sure, would love to
have better options at repairing the standings as well.
looks like you just support healthy gameplay and a
better game for everyone. got my vote.
ok, thanks for the reply.once again good luck in the
upcoming election.dmc
i have updated the op with some helpful links. does
anybody have questions?
it's actually comical, how you have such a strong and
hateful opinion about something that doesn't really
matter a lot; or about having to spend a little more isk
and time to keep your trap locations bubbled.it is,
actually, comical!
as a mechanic it makes sense to have but it feels
very archaic and there are limited ways to improve
standings. some ways are very esoteric and it's a
grind if you're starting from low/negative standings.
one thing to consider further is that things like
markets and industry are moving away from npc
stations to citadels and these standings are having
less relevancy. perhaps if they were linked to other
mechanics, like lp purchases/discounts (i think they
have some impact but only for enabling purchase), it
would help make them a bit more relevant - but this
would be a low priority thing for ccp, i would assume.
concerning stabbed ships, if it is not possible to
disallow entry of ships fitted with wcs into plexes,
then a reasonable solution may be to adjust the
requirement to fit a wcs to not be within the pg/cpu of
frigs but still be available for use by larger hulls. this
way, fw players finally get a solution against the wcs
menace but not take away an option for the rest of
the game.i feel pretty indifferent towards the suspect
timer when entering plexes. we're already in low sec
so we can already attack each other in the middle of
space without much consequence. i would be careful
about giving t4/t5 pay outs for killing war targets
regardless of what tier your faction is in. seeing as we
have not yet seen any changes in fw in a post citadel
world, we may be messing up / missing an
opportunity to actually use the tier based pay outs to
provide rewards that are in line with fw
activities.clone discount? yes please. that's a
reasonable quality of life improvement that's not
detrimental to the overall health of the warzone.thank
you very much for your questions.
making an effort to increase your faction standings
should mean something. zero faction standings
should mean zero added rewards. hopefully
whenever ccp is ready to tackle revising the
missioning system, they will put more weight in what
content will be available based on faction standings.
of course this runs on the assumption that there will
be added missions to the available pool. if we do find
ourselves in such an environment, the lp stores will
need to see revisions as well in order to provide
sufficient rewards based on the added commitment.
a motivator to commit to gaining faction standings
(which could in turn decrease enemy faction
standings) could be more unique faction items
introduced to the lp stores that highlight attributes
and lore of the respective faction.thank you for your
question.
thanks for the reply and i agree 100%.this game was
based on having a balance in 'risk vs reward' and
'actions vs consequences' which makes this game
great. currently the only way to repair negative faction
standings is to grind missions. it takes time for
players to ruin faction standings and it should take
some time to repair those standings. in the past
characters use to be accountable for their actions in-
game, now most everything has been dumbed down
and turned into easy mode for the instant gratification
crowd. that's something i don't want to see happen to
faction standings. currently the in-game aspects of
faction standings :positive faction standings are the
only way to access cosmos agents (one time
access).positive faction and corporation standings
are needed to access research agents.all other
agents only require minimal amount of faction
standing for access (-2.00 or higher standing).high
faction standings reduce market broker fees and
reprocessing fees in npc stations.at -5.00 or lower
faction standing, empire npc's will attack when in
their space.in my opinion ccp made a big mistake
when they removed the need to have faction
standings to anchor pos in high sec space. i'd like to
see more content pertaining to faction standings be
added to the game but at this time my inquiry is
based more on the effects of negative faction
standings.i created and shared the 'faction standing
repair plan' with the playerbase back in 2010. in my
opinion players need more options available to repair
negative faction standings then what i've listed in 'the
plan'. most of those event agents can only be
accessed once in the characters life. a lot of players
in-game don't even read the forums so they don't
know that guide is available. in fact repairing negative
faction standings is a big task for experienced
players. new players who haven't even learned the
game yet can easily mess up their faction standings
right from the start without even knowing it, resulting
in no access to half of empire space.anyway these
are some options i think would help players in-
game.faction standing repair process be
implemented in-game to be very intuitive, not obscure
(tutorial perhaps).changes to faction standings notify
players with on screen pop up message (option to
deactivate).actions that would cause negative faction
standing trigger on screen pop up warning (option to
deactivate).all anti-empire mission briefings have a
warning to inform players those missions will incur
negative faction standings.implement tags for
standings in-game based on similar game mechanics
as tags for security.add npc agents to in-game agent
finder for faction standing repair (similar to proposal
in my forum signature).once again good luck with the
upcoming election.dmc

3 more days until voting opens!
wohhh fugetaboutit!eve news chief imperium.news
(formerly tmc) | host talking in stations show
thanks for interviewing me :) contributer to eve is
easy:<U+FFFD>
thanks everyone - all interviews/discussions are
ended. wrap up show is posted... great job and gl to
you alleve news chief imperium.news (formerly tmc) |
host talking in stations show
while i enjoy ruthless mad play environments, it is
also true that i enjoy building and learning.it is
extremely important that players have enough power
to be safe in game during early stages. i think ccp is
indeed missing a lot of nuance in their analysis of
player behavior. it's basic human nature, people shy
away from unsafe, even "tough guys".---less
neutrality but more options: (safe haven revamp)1)
eliminate npc corporation safe havens. all players
would be placed into faction warfare corporations
after one week of gameplay. unless they join a player
corp.2) official safe havens: player corps should be
able to pay concord for immunity from wardec as
long as they meet certain requirements:*no outposts
or citadels can be owned.*no structures
anchored.*hq must be in highsec.*average character
skillpoint under certain threshold.3*) the above could
also be an individual player option. you get immunity
in highsec up to a certain age or sp level, if the player
chooses to activate this option, and anything up to 1
yr or a certain sp amount above the initial freebie will
cost the player some amount of isk. (after that year or
sp point, this option will no longer be available.)---this
is just a basic outline for acheiving that kind haven for
newbros that could help retention and gameplay.
harrassment that is "not harrassment per the rules" in
eve should be eliminated in highsec in order to make
the game more enjoyable at the early, low sp and low
knowledge point stages.will this make certain griefers
upset? sure. but who cares, be brave and fight
someone who is interested.
that is what hs is for. it is the safest space in the
game, although it is not "safe" in the sense that if
people want to and are willing to face the
consequences they can still shoot you. people
typically move around hs with little or no interference.
this notion that ganking, especially of new players, is
rampant is completely unsubstantiated bullshit. in
fact, i'm going to go so far as to call it a lie. a blatant
bald face lie.further, ccp has looked at new player
ganking and here are the findings:1. it is rare. about
1% of players are suicide ganked in their 15 days.2.
those who are suicide ganked or even killed legally
they tend to play longer than those not ganked at
all.bottom line is that ganking, of new players is both
rare and not detrimental.here is a presentation of the
analysis:
teckos,the video refers to an analysis of players
under 15 days old. enough said, your point is
garbage. that's not where the ganking metagame is
even played.anyway, back to the real point. my target
is not the ganking meta game here. if you read my
proposal, it's clear that i'm referring to a new way of
entering pvp and new way to give players
control.there is a sweet spot for players who are
finally getting it and starting to do new things. they
begin to fly better ships and barges and exhumers
and so on. there's a point of frustration where their
rewards are not sufficiently high for their efforts.
there's also a disconnect in the early stages from
players and npc corporations.this is why i propose all
players be forced into a type of faction warfare early
on, forcing them to go player corps is that's not their
thing. but also my idea is about enabling players who
truly need safer learning environments to be immune
from attack in early stages provided they pay the
price.i am for a significant revamp of fw also. as it is
currently, it sucks and it's not attractive.
hello all,sometimes the proof of something good is in
the details. i have an issue with neutral npc corps and
neutral cans in space as they currently stand. secure
containers should not be able to be dropped by
neutral entities, but more importantly, we need to be
able to destroy those cans. why are they randomly
immune from all aggression??? it's absurd... and
they're only used for advertisement. lets make a real
advertisement module.less neutrality but more
options: (safe haven revamp)1) eliminate npc
corporation safe havens. all players would be placed
into faction warfare corporations after one week of
gameplay. unless they join a player corp.2) official
safe havens: player corps should be able to pay
concord for immunity from wardec as long as they
meet certain requirements:*no outposts or citadels
can be owned.*no structures anchored.*hq must be
in highsec.*average character skillpoint under certain
threshold.3*) the above could also be an individual
player option. you get immunity in highsec up to a
certain age or sp level, if the player chooses to
activate this option, and anything up to 1 yr or a
certain sp amount above the initial freebie will cost
the player some amount of isk. (after that year or sp
point, this option will no longer be available.)
so this is my second suggestion to the game how
about adding a play button on the show info tabs of
systems. and mabey even ships that include an audio
recording of how to say the name of what you are
looking at.
max, stop trolling my campaign thread. no i will not
promise that they will happen, yes i will bug every ccp
dev i meet about it, just to get the point across that
alliances in wormhole space will definitely approve of
that qol change.
caring, compassionate, considerate, knowledgeable.
he cares about the player community, is considerate
of others and compassionate about his work with ccp
as a csm. sir jin'taan is an easy choice for me. his
knowledge of the game and the issues facing players
is - in my opinion - second to none. he is considerate
of others and will hear debates on many sides of an
issue, yet present a balanced, fair conclusion. i am
thankful for the opportunity to play this game and
communicate with him daily. he also has an
extremely sexy fc voice and remains calm and
collected under all circumstances. a shining star in
eve. you have my vote, sir jin'taan.

ow, another thing in little things, contract notifications
on entering new eden, not on opening contract node.
"schr<U+FFFD>dinger's missile. i dig it." ~ makari
aeron
double whammy today for press release news
oh, then you are the expert ;) interesting stuff - and
thx. your faction standing repair plan has been used
to great effect and was - together with the mining
guides - a great help.perhaps it would also be great
to generally link to internal ccp and external player
content in the help files too, as ccp recommends eve
uni and goon wiki anyway...
sorry for the late reply.(disclaimer: i don't really run
missions and most of my knowledge here is second
hand)it's always bugged me that there are faction
damaging missions because most mission runners
will just avoid them anyways. maybe there is a
reason for this that i'm not yet aware of, but i've
always had the impression that only newer players
who don't understand the implications of running
these missions and having bad standings that they
then have to grind back up. the consequences for
newer players of bad standings tend to far outweigh
the benefits of good standings with these factions. it
would be nice to have tags to improve standings to
empires, similar to security tags where you wouldn't
be able to gain positive standings, only bring up
negative standings imo.it would be nice to see
factions hold a more meaningful role in empire space
and the actions being made through these missions
affect an empire's control over border systems or
something. have the missions that damage standings
actually be over control of these border regions as a
more pve focused kind of fw. just a thought.hopefully
this answered your question.toxic
so the eve of the elections is upon us.i would like to
take this time to encourage everyone to vote, for
whoever they want (or whoever their block tells
them).it would be nice, now that we have all forgotten
the drama of csmx if the percentage of participants in
the voting could start climbing, so that the
"playerbase representation" of the csm could become
fact instead of fiction.i am afraid ccp has a long way
to go in getting the numbers working for high sec...
and from what i have observed in the last three years
the interest in the csm is dwindling..."no and i'm also
not going to look for one as i'm not going to vote." - a
fairly typical response from one of my ex-supporters
on the subject of "a solution to the low turnout in high
sec voters..."i think it would be nice if ccp could
bombard us with popups or notifications (like that
cluster shutdown thing for downtime) - for example at
login - so that everyone that logs into eve is at least
aware that the csm exists.still i am looking forward to
seeing what happens.
thank you!crossing zebras - ashterothi! former
executor templis calsf alliance
here is the declaration of war podcast that i did
yesterday. the ashterothi interview should be up later
today. declaration of war - round table former
executor templis calsf alliance
hi demichael,maybe you can help me with this. i am a
spokesperson for you and the other factions. that's
my goal. while i want to bring to the table awareness
around citadel balancing and improving pvp for all of
us, my agenda is driven by you.so it comes down to
getting a comprehensive list of action items from
each faction. if you are the minmatar representative
and the collective wants to improve standing
mechanics. that's going on the agenda. i need each
faction to partner with one another and agree to what
must be heard by ccp.i am also looking to ask ccp to
follow through on some items that they agreed were
an issue with fw over the years but pushed off to
invest in other areas of the game.i would like to see
plexing tie in with standings and if that's your priority i
would put that on the agenda so we are all
heard.best,scylus former executor templis calsf
alliance

lillik here, reminding you to vote lillik e! vote women in
w-space!
i also want supercap spinning in keepstars!and
bigger kill marks for all ships... you know, so you can
actually see them....
hi demichael crimson.regarding faction standings i
think its covered good by the social skills. hjowever i
would say that just with sec standings where you can
find/buy tags and hand those in to improve your
standings. something similar should arise for faction
standings. however i do not know how feasible that
plan would be for ccp. for that i would need to open
that discussion and see how its received.i hope this
answers your question.kind regards,eduard teach
thanks for the reply,i agree, turning in tags for
standings is definitely an option. however in my
opinion social skills just barely keep the effects of
negative faction standings in check. and that's only if
players keep watch on their standings and adjust
their gameplay accordingly. i think faction standings
should have a more positive impact on game play,
especially since eve online is based on having a
balance in 'risk vs reward' and 'actions vs
consequences'. that's what makes this game great. in
the past characters were accountable for their
actions, now most everything is being dumbed down
and turned into easy mode for the instant gratification
crowd. that's something i don't want to see happen to
faction standings. currently the in-game aspects of
faction standings :positive faction standings are the
only way to access cosmos agents (one time
access).positive faction and corporation standings
are needed to access research agents.all other
agents only require minimal amount of faction
standing for access (-2.00 or higher standing).high
faction standings reduce market broker fees and
reprocessing fees in npc stations.at -5.00 or lower
faction standing, empire npc's will attack when in
their space.in my opinion ccp made a big mistake
when they removed the need to have positive faction
standings to anchor pos in high sec space. having
that requirement made faction standings more
meaningful instead of just being a way to access
agents or to get lower broker fees. now i would love
to see more content pertaining to positive faction
standings be added to the game. however at this
time my inquiry is based more on the negative effects
of faction standings to the playerbase. since it takes
time for players to ruin their faction standings then it
should also take some time to repair those standings.
unfortunately that info is basically nonexistent in-
game when it should actually be readily available and
easily understood by players.i created and shared the
'faction standing repair plan' with the playerbase on
the forums back in 2010. over the past 7 years it has
helped countless amount of players to rectify what
seemed like an unsolvable issue. in my opinion
players need more options available to repair
negative faction standings then what i've listed in that
guide. in fact most of those event agents can only be
accessed once in the characters life. there's a lot of
players in-game who don't read the forums and don't
know that guide exists. they've basically accepted the
fact they're cut off from engaging in available content
due to negative faction standings. repairing negative
standings is a big task even for experienced players
who are familiar with 'the plan'. new players who
haven't learned the game yet can easily mess up
their faction standings without even knowing it right
from the start, resulting in no access to half of empire
space.anyway, after 7 years of helping players in the
forums to repair negative faction standings, i just
wanted to provide some feedback through the csm
for ccp to consider. i believe these options would
definitely help players in-game.faction standing repair
process be implemented in-game and be very
intuitive, not obscure (tutorial perhaps).changes to
faction standings will notify players with on screen
pop up message (option to deactivate).actions that
would cause negative faction standing trigger on
screen pop up warning (option to deactivate).all anti-
empire mission briefings have a warning informing
players those missions will incur negative faction
standings.implement tags for standings in-game
based on similar game mechanics as tags for
security.add npc agents to in-game agent finder for
faction standing repair (similar to proposal in my
forum signature).once again good luck with the
upcoming election.dmc
hi demichael,i totally agree that removing the need
for good faction standings for pos anchoring was a
mistake. negative factionstandings is not something
newbros look into. i only found out after 6 months of
playing and only thought at that time that
factionstandings only got hurt through storyline
events, which is not the case.so i do believe repairing
those standings should be more clear. as i stated
above the tag issue thing would be a start especially
if repairing those would only got as far as a specific
number (lets say boost until negative standing -1.00).
but i also do believe faction standings should be in
balance (so when you are great buddies with
minmatar you can't be with amarr i.e.)so that this
forces players to make choices on who they want to
be friends with. otherwise the following would happen
if it becomes to easy to get good standings, everyone
has great standings with the 4 big factions and the
pirate factions).
thanks again for the great ama capsuleers. as i
promised, i will attach my ideas document in this
post. hope to hear more feedback from all who are
interested.ideas- jonn
now i know that i bill myself as a wormhole candidate,
but if i am elected, i am not going to be representing
just the wormhole community, i'll be representing
everyone from the day 1 noob mining in a celestis in
a 0.9 system who skipped the tutorials, to your
bitterest of bitter vets in null who have 10 titan
characters that haven't logged on in years scattered
in different regions, who just buys another one every
time his alliance moves regions.so eve, i challenge
you, want your opinion heard? shoot me a line here,
or mail me in game, and i will come onto your comms
and talk.
how do you plan to improve the new player
experience? what are some flaws that you plan to
address in the csm and the new player experience?
i have been running people through it to find
sequence breaks and other problems. i have been
noting when the people i run through it get stuck or
have a confusion. i give this data to ccp. i am really
good at finding flaws in any system. ccp seems to
have a ravenous appetite for fixing these flaws when
it comes to the npe.
thanks mate.
getting my vote it<U+FFFD>s important the counsel
has fair and measured representation and i think you
bring this on the behalf of high sec, industry and solo
play.keep up the good work.
hello and thanks for the reply.i agree there are limited
ways to improve standings and most of them are
indeed esoteric / unknown to most players. and yes
you're right, currently the only way to repair negative
faction standings is to grind missions.eve online was
based on having a balance in 'risk vs reward' and
'actions vs consequences' which makes this game
great. in the past characters use to be accountable
for their actions in-game, now most everything has
been dumbed down and turned into easy mode for
the instant gratification crowd. that's something i don't
want to see happen to faction standings. currently the
in-game aspects of faction standings :positive faction
standings are the only way to access cosmos agents
(one time access).positive faction and corporation
standings are needed to access research agents.all
other agents only require minimal amount of faction
standing for access (-2.00 or higher standing).high
faction standings reduce market broker fees and
reprocessing fees in npc stations.at -5.00 or lower
faction standing, empire npc's will attack when in
their space.in my opinion ccp made a big mistake
when they removed the need to have faction
standings to anchor pos in high sec space. it made
faction standings more meaningful in-game than just
a way to access agents. now i'd love to see more
content pertaining to faction standings be added to
the game but at this time my inquiry is based more on
the effects of negative faction standings to the
playerbase. since it takes time for players to ruin
faction standings then it should also take some time
to repair those standings. however the info to
complete that task should be readily available and
easily understood by players in-game.i created and
shared the 'faction standing repair plan' with the
playerbase on the forums back in 2010. over the past
7 years it has helped countless amount of players to
rectify what seemed like an unsolvable issue. in my
opinion players need more options available to repair
negative faction standings then what i've listed in 'the
plan'. most of those event agents can only be
accessed once in the characters life. there's a lot of
players in-game who don't read the forums and don't
know that guide exists. they've basically accepted the
fact they're cut off from engaging in available content
due to negative faction standings. repairing those
standings is a big task even for experienced players
who are familiar with 'the plan'. new players who
haven't learned the game yet can easily mess up
their faction standings without even knowing it right
from the start, resulting in no access to half of empire
space.anyway, i just wanted to provide some
feedback through the csm for ccp to consider. i
believe these options would definitely help players in-
game.faction standing repair process be
implemented in-game to be very intuitive, not obscure
(tutorial perhaps).changes to faction standings notify
players with on screen pop up message (option to
deactivate).actions that would cause negative faction
standing trigger on screen pop up warning (option to
deactivate).all anti-empire mission briefings have a
warning to inform players those missions will incur
negative faction standings.implement tags for
standings in-game based on similar game mechanics
as tags for security.add npc agents to in-game agent
finder for faction standing repair (similar to proposal
in my forum signature).once again good luck with the
upcoming election.dmc
faction standings are a facet of eves roleplay
component for aligning with a certain faction. if you
make friends with one faction you will lose standings
with their foes through the means of derived
standings.the issue with faction standings is, they
have nearly no impact on actual gameplay, except if
your faction standing is so low, that you are being
shot by the faction police. and - to a minor degree -
market broker fees, if you are trading on an npc
station.since faction standings are very hard to gain,
it requires a lot of storyline missions being done, they
should have at least some impact. they could for
example have a role in future pve content. also there
should be ways to "repair" negative faction standing,
but again at the cost of losing standings with the foes
of that faction.
thanks for the reply,i agree that faction standings
should have a more positive impact on game play,
especially since eve online was based on having a
balance in 'risk vs reward' and 'actions vs
consequences'. that's what made this game great. in
the past characters were accountable for their
actions, now most everything has been dumbed
down and turned into easy mode for the instant
gratification crowd. that's something i don't want to
see happen to faction standings. currently the in-
game aspects of faction standings :positive faction
standings are the only way to access cosmos agents
(one time access).positive faction and corporation
standings are needed to access research agents.all
other agents only require minimal amount of faction
standing for access (-2.00 or higher standing).high
faction standings reduce market broker fees and
reprocessing fees in npc stations.at -5.00 or lower
faction standing, empire npc's will attack when in
their space.in my opinion ccp made a big mistake
when they removed the need to have positive faction
standings to anchor pos in high sec space. that
requirement made faction standings more meaningful
instead of just being a way to access agents or to get
lower broker fees. now i would love to see more
content pertaining to positive faction standings be
added to the game. however at this time my inquiry is
based more on the negative effects of faction
standings to the playerbase. since it takes time for
players to ruin their faction standings then it should
also take some time to repair those standings.
unfortunately that info is basically nonexistent in-
game when it should actually be readily available and
easily understood by players.i created and shared the
'faction standing repair plan' with the playerbase on
the forums back in 2010. over the past 7 years it has
helped countless amount of players to rectify what
seemed like an unsolvable issue. in my opinion
players need more options available to repair
negative faction standings then what i've listed in that
guide. in fact most of those event agents can only be
accessed once in the characters life. there's a lot of
players in-game who don't read the forums and don't
know that guide exists. they've basically accepted the
fact they're cut off from engaging in available content
due to negative faction standings. repairing those
standings is a big task even for experienced players
who are familiar with 'the plan'. new players who
haven't learned the game yet can easily mess up
their faction standings without even knowing it right
from the start, resulting in no access to half of empire
space.anyway, i just wanted to provide some
feedback through the csm for ccp to consider. i
believe these options would definitely help players in-
game.faction standing repair process be
implemented in-game to be very intuitive, not obscure
(tutorial perhaps).changes to faction standings notify
players with on screen pop up message (option to
deactivate).actions that would cause negative faction
standing trigger on screen pop up warning (option to
deactivate).all anti-empire mission briefings have a
warning to inform players those missions will incur
negative faction standings.implement tags for
standings in-game based on similar game mechanics
as tags for security.add npc agents to in-game agent
finder for faction standing repair (similar to proposal
in my forum signature).once again good luck with the
upcoming election.dmc
raphendyr is a solid dude with very good attitude
towards game and its future.i believe he is a good
candidate for csm.i have had many conversations
with him about the current state of the game and hes
ideas are really good.on the other hand he is also
quite realistic in his goals which he wants to achieve
if he reaches place in csm.
before i vote for you, can you tell us how truthful you
were when you said you were going to biomass all
characters but did not?
nobody can truly leave eve. and who in their right
mind would ever biomass 4 100mil sp toons?
going over some questions that were askedhow
much do you answer to the upper ranks of pl and
others and how much are you your 'own'?a common
misconception people have about horde is that we
ultimately answer to pl. truth is i can say what i want
but people will still doubt that this isn<U+FFFD>t the
case. and that is fair, that was the price we paid when
we decided to call ourselves
<U+FFFD>pandemic<U+FFFD> horde. we have a
good mix of pl members who are directors and horde
<U+FFFD>grown<U+FFFD> directors whose opinion
all matter equally and work together smoothly. every
one of those directors ultimately answer to the ceo,
gobbins who makes the final decisions if we
can<U+FFFD>t come to a decision. however i
can<U+FFFD>t even remembered the last time that
happened. for the last 2 years i<U+FFFD>ve been
running my own projects inside horde focussing on
new players without negative interaction from pl, in
fact a lot of the their experience and views about eve
have helped me tremendously. i do not see how
doing the same sort of activities in the csm would
suddenly cause a need to answer to anyone. what i
hope is to have people on csm12 with me that
disagree with me, because discussions are a good
thing. if csm12 is a group that can discuss and argue
with each other and keep an open mind about each
others opinion we<U+FFFD>ll be just fine. the csm in
my view isn<U+FFFD>t a group that takes a vote and
then pushes an opinion through. it should be a group
that discusses and wins each other over, finds a
middle ground or agrees to disagree and
communicate both viewpoints to ccp for them to make
the decision. will you expect to continue to be able to
do the good work you do if csm takes a fair share of
your time or have you considered handing off
responsibilities?delegating work i am passionate
about isn<U+FFFD>t exactly one of my strong suits
and probably one of my biggest weaknesses in terms
of the csm candidacy. i put an insane amount of time
into my responsibilities at pandemic horde and it that
regard i<U+FFFD>m going to learn quite a bit this
year :).the plan if i win in april is as follows, i plan to
keep all my current projects running which means i
won<U+FFFD>t be stepping down as director, still be
running nbi and working on our tooling. however new
projects will most likely end on someone else his
plate, luckily we have plenty of people willing to step
up and take on those challenges. that realistically
might still leave me with a shortage on raw time, so
additionally i<U+FFFD>m going to do something
i<U+FFFD>ve been wanting to do for a while now
which is work less and spend more time on the things
i<U+FFFD>m passionate about or wish to develop
myself into. this includes the csm, online
communities, eve, horde and hopefully a bit of pr &
marketing (if there is time left).
what is your viewpoint regarding faction standings
and as a csm member, what changes would you
propose to ccp pertaining to game mechanics for
faction standings?i<U+FFFD>m going to assume you
mean the faction standings towards npc<U+FFFD>s
and the 4 races. this isn<U+FFFD>t a subject
i<U+FFFD>m particularly an expert on and would be
something i rather talk to other players and the
community first to see the different viewpoints
everyone has. on a lot of these subjects i think my
personal opinion should weigh as much as every
other dude but i do realize that people are curious
where i stand as well. i see my role more as someone
representing the views of the community, trying to
mediate between polar opposites in the community
and hopefully bring combined feedback and solutions
from those discussions to ccp. my personal opinion
would be that faction/npc standings at the moment
mean very little in eve, too little. with the (accidental)
removal of needing them for jump clones becoming
permanent this removed yet another reason to have
them. as well as npcs that used to give faction
standings no longer being around. on the subject of
jump clones specifically i feel they opened the game
up a lot and especially gives newer players a good
benefit. so i wasn<U+FFFD>t against that change at
all but it taking another use away for npc standings is
a shame. however there aren<U+FFFD>t very many
things that require npc or faction standings any more
besides pve activities. ultimately standings should be
just that, not a mechanic on itself. what should matter
most is the mechanics how you obtain them, they
should be fun and engaging. standings should be the
negative and positive effects of those those
mechanics but not as it as the moment the goal itself
but rather a side effect of the activities you do.the
means of gathering the npc and faction standings are
considered very boring / tedious for a large group of
players. i believe that before you can make standings
mean more we<U+FFFD>ll need changes to how
they are obtained. at the moment standings are just a
number and unlock some things, they
don<U+FFFD>t matter to a large portion of the eve
community. i feel what a lot of people want from them
is the universe to change its behavior towards you
based on those standings much beyond not being
able to dock or being chased in highsec home
systems. for all of that to happen you need to start at
the core issue which in my opinion would mean
altering how standings are gained. the operation
center is coming this year maybe that<U+FFFD>s an
opportunity to put a bandaid fix on a much larger
problem. i do feel at the core eve<U+FFFD>s pve
system needs to get some love for standings to really
shine at a later point again.
kalbuir skirate, thank you very much for the insightful
reply. i like how you see your role as representing the
views of the community to ccp. however i think your
assessment that standings don<U+FFFD>t matter to
a large portion of the eve community may be
incorrect.i believe faction standings should have
more impact on game play, especially since eve
online is based on having a balance in 'risk vs
reward' and 'actions vs consequences'. that's what
makes this game great. in the past characters were
accountable for their actions, now most everything is
being dumbed down and turned into easy mode for
the instant gratification crowd. that's something i don't
want to see happen to faction standings. currently the
in-game aspects of faction standings :positive faction
standings are the only way to access cosmos agents
(one time access).positive faction and corporation
standings are needed to access research agents.all
other agents only require minimal amount of faction
standing for access (-2.00 or higher standing).high
faction standings reduce market broker fees and
reprocessing fees in npc stations.at -5.00 or lower
faction standing, empire npc's will attack when in
their space.in my opinion ccp made a big mistake
when they removed the need to have positive faction
standings to anchor pos in high sec space. having
that requirement made faction standings more
meaningful instead of currently just being a way to
access agents or obtain lower broker fees. now i
would love to see more content pertaining to positive
faction standings be added to the game. however at
this time my inquiry is based more on the negative
effects of faction standings to the playerbase. since it
takes time for players to ruin their faction standings
then it should also take some time to repair those
standings. unfortunately that info is basically
nonexistent in-game when it should actually be
readily available and easily understood by players.i
created and shared the 'faction standing repair plan'
with the playerbase on the forums back in 2010. over
the past 7 years it has helped countless amount of
players to rectify what seemed like an unsolvable
issue. in my opinion players need more options
available to repair negative faction standings. in fact
most of the event agents listed in that guide can only
be accessed once in the characters life. there's a lot
of players in-game who don't read the forums and
don't even know that guide exists. they've basically
accepted the fact they're cut off from engaging in
available content due to negative faction standings.
repairing negative standings is a big task even for
experienced players who are familiar with 'the plan'.
new players who are still learning the game can
easily mess up their faction standings right from the
start without even knowing it, resulting in loss of
access to available content or worse, no access to
half of empire space.anyway, after 7 years of helping
players in the forums to repair negative faction
standings, i just wanted to provide some feedback
through the csm for ccp to consider. i believe these
options would definitely help players in-game.faction
standing repair process be implemented in-game and
be very intuitive, not obscure (tutorial
perhaps).changes to faction standings will notify
players with on screen pop up message (option to
deactivate).actions that would cause negative faction
standing trigger on screen pop up warning (option to
deactivate).all anti-empire mission briefings have a
warning informing players those missions will incur
negative faction standings.implement tags for
standings in-game based on similar game mechanics
as tags for security.add npc agents to in-game agent
finder for faction standing repair (similar to proposal
in my forum signature).once again good luck with the
upcoming election.dmc

i have no doubt that kalbuir will bring the same
dedication experience and knowledge to the csm that
he's brought to horde.+1"angels live, they never die,
apart from us, behind the sky. they're fading souls
who've turned to ice, so ashen white in paradise."
many thanks to declarations of war for their interview
this morning, it may have been devastating to my
sleep cycle, but it was both enjoyable and
informative!
thanks for the interview, was fun.
you somehow think there is a problem with people
not being save in the early stages of gameplay.
teckos showed you an analysis which basically
concludes that people who get blown up are more
likely to join. this is very relevant.i'm not sure why
people like you think isolating players for weeks or
months from the real game is somehow something a
real new player is looking for. most of them probably
get drawn to eve because the hear about those epic
universe shaping battles and not because they think
it's an awesome game to mine in perfect safety. so
why are you trying to keep them out of the real
game?
yes, new players. and the point still stands, those who
are suicide ganked or even killed legally in their first
15 days stay longer than those who are not.this is a
sandbox, a game of spontaneous order and
emergence. the idea is that ccp does not control how
people enter into pvp. nor do the players always have
control over this. that is the fundamental nature of the
game.sorry, but there is no nice way to say this....you
are coming of as an "expert" who knows what is best
for everyone and you'll force everyone to do what you
want because you know best...for everyone. sorry,
but i don't accept that view. i find it a view of
unbelievable hubris. my view is let players explore
the game and learn it as they see fit...not forcing
them all into a one-size fits all experience.
google translate eve edition! lets do voice recognition
too.. "warp to hek gate".... aura; warping to rancer!
it has to tell you that poitot is the only named system
in syndicate every time you enter it
eve nt interview questions posted!
^^ this says it all.done.
hi,what is your view on an option to put corpshares
on the market ?
id be for a investment fund and stock exchange, i
think that could be fun and meaningful gameplay
thanks, i'm glad to hear it was helpful.as i said before
it's helped a lot of players who browse the forums.
however since evelopedia is no longer active and a
large portion of the playerbase doesn't read the
forums, i think access to that info needs to be
somehow incorporated into the game. i believe all
players should have the option in-game to gain
diplomatic immunity with the empire factions. the fact
that the info pertaining to faction standing repair is
hidden from players in-game is the reason for my
post. after 7 years of helping players in the forums to
repair negative faction standings, i just wanted to
provide some feedback through the csm for ccp to
consider.once again good luck with the upcoming
election.dmc
hello and thanks for the reply.i like your idea of
having anti-empire missions help affect control of fw
border systems. definitely something to think about.i
agree that positive faction standings should have a
more meaningful impact on game play, especially
since eve online is based on having a balance in 'risk
vs reward' and 'actions vs consequences'. that's what
makes this game great. in the past characters were
accountable for their actions, now most everything is
being dumbed down and turned into easy mode for
the instant gratification crowd. that's something i don't
want to see happen to faction standings. currently the
in-game aspects of faction standings :positive faction
standings are the only way to access cosmos agents
(one time access).positive faction and corporation
standings are needed to access research agents.all
other agents only require minimal amount of faction
standing for access (-2.00 or higher standing).high
faction standings reduce market broker fees and
reprocessing fees in npc stations.at -5.00 or lower
faction standing, empire npc's will attack when in
their space.in my opinion ccp made a big mistake
when they removed the need to have positive faction
standings to anchor pos in high sec space. having
that requirement made faction standings mean
something more instead of just a way to access
agents or to get lower broker fees. now i would love
to see more content pertaining to positive faction
standings be added to the game. however at this
time my inquiry is based on the negative effects of
faction standings to the playerbase. since it takes
time for players to ruin their faction standings then it
should also take some time to repair those standings.
unfortunately that info is basically nonexistent in-
game when it should actually be readily available and
easily understood by players.i created and shared the
'faction standing repair plan' with the playerbase on
the forums back in 2010. over the past 7 years it has
helped countless amount of players to rectify what
seemed like an unsolvable issue. in my opinion
players need more options available to repair
negative faction standings then what i've listed in that
guide. in fact most of those event agents can only be
accessed once in the characters life. there's a lot of
players in-game who don't read the forums and don't
know that guide exists. they've basically accepted the
fact they're cut off from engaging in available content
due to negative faction standings. repairing negative
standings is a big task even for experienced players
who are familiar with 'the plan'. new players who
haven't learned the game yet can easily mess up
their faction standings without even knowing it right
from the start, resulting in no access to half of empire
space.anyway, i think all players should have the
option in-game to gain diplomatic immunity with the
empire factions. the fact that the info pertaining to
faction standing repair is hidden from players in-
game is the reason for my post. after 7 years of
helping players in the forums to repair negative
faction standings, i just wanted to provide some
feedback through the csm for ccp to consider.i
believe these options would definitely help all players
in-game.faction standing repair process be
implemented in-game and be very intuitive, not
obscure (tutorial perhaps).changes to faction
standings will notify players with on screen pop up
message (option to deactivate).actions that would
cause negative faction standing trigger on screen
pop up warning (option to deactivate).all anti-empire
mission briefings have a warning informing players
those missions will incur negative faction
standings.implement tags for empire standings in-
game based on similar game mechanics as tags for
security.add npc agents to in-game agent finder for
faction standing repair (similar to proposal in my
forum signature).once again good luck with the
upcoming election.dmc

hi,whats your view on an option to put corpshares on
the market ?
good luck toxic, you got my #1 slot for all eligible
characters this year.
you will be on my ballot again this year, toxic.host of
high drag podcast.
i am actually planning to vote towards the end of the
week, because i am waiting to see if anything new
comes up... but...i know that statistically, most of the
people that are going to vote do so in the first couple
of days. they have already made up their minds, or
had their minds made up for them.so this is what my
voting list looks like at the moment. - in case any of
my supporters are unsure what to do with their votes.
i will happily answer any questions people have
about it.lorelei ierendicommander azetoxic
yakenroedynsteve ronukenrhiload feron-drakeariel
rinjuvenius drakoniuserika mizunedj
thomasalternates:xenuriajtclone ares
                                                       1
hello and thanks for the reply,i'm not a fw player and
my inquiry actually pertains to all players, especially
fw members who leave the militia and as a
consequence of their time served can not access
content available in unfriendly empire space.now
don't get me wrong, i think faction standings should
have an impact on game play, especially since eve
online is based on having a balance in 'risk vs
reward' and 'actions vs consequences'. that's what
makes this game great. in the past characters were
accountable for their actions, now most everything is
being dumbed down and turned into easy mode for
the instant gratification crowd. that's something i don't
want to see happen to faction standings. currently the
in-game aspects of faction standings :positive faction
standings are the only way to access cosmos agents
(one time access).positive faction and corporation
standings are needed to access research agents.all
other agents only require minimal amount of faction
standing for access (-2.00 or higher standing).high
faction standings reduce market broker fees and
reprocessing fees in npc stations.at -5.00 or lower
faction standing, empire npc's will attack when in
their space.in my opinion ccp made a big mistake
when they removed the need to have positive faction
standings to anchor pos in high sec space. having
that requirement made faction standings more
meaningful instead of just being a way to access
agents or to get lower broker fees. now i would love
to see more content pertaining to positive faction
standings be added to the game. however at this
time my inquiry is based on the negative effects of
faction standings to the playerbase. since it takes
time for players to ruin their faction standings then it
should also take some time to repair those standings.
unfortunately that info is basically nonexistent in-
game when it should actually be readily available and
easily understood by players.i created and shared the
'faction standing repair plan' with the playerbase on
the forums back in 2010. over the past 7 years it has
helped countless amount of players to rectify what
seemed like an unsolvable issue. in my opinion
players need more options available to repair
negative faction standings then what i've listed in that
guide. in fact most of those event agents can only be
accessed once in the characters life. there's a lot of
players in-game who don't read the forums and don't
know that guide exists. they've basically accepted the
fact they're cut off from engaging in available content
due to negative faction standings. repairing negative
standings is a big task even for experienced players
who are familiar with 'the plan'. new players who
haven't learned the game yet can easily mess up
their faction standings without even knowing it right
from the start, resulting in no access to half of empire
space.anyway, after 7 years of helping players in the
forums to repair negative faction standings, i just
wanted to provide some feedback through the csm
for ccp to consider. i believe these options would
definitely help all players in-game.faction standing
repair process be implemented in-game and be very
intuitive, not obscure (tutorial perhaps).changes to
faction standings will notify players with on screen
pop up message (option to deactivate).actions that
would cause negative faction standing trigger on
screen pop up warning (option to deactivate).all anti-
empire mission briefings have a warning informing
players those missions will incur negative faction
standings.implement tags for empire standings in-
game based on similar game mechanics as tags for
security.add npc agents to in-game agent finder for
faction standing repair (similar to proposal in my
forum signature).once again good luck with the
upcoming election.dmc

really enjoyed this interview. ashterothi at crossing
zebrascsm chat - scylus black / crossing zebras
former executor templis calsf alliance
vote lillik e for csmxii! we need your vote!
what do you think about ccpls 2nd rorqual nerf and
how would you change null sec mining?
i am not surprised by it, but on the same note, the
proposed changes to panic mode are badly thought
out. the easiest fix for the jump hic would to have the
same penalties to e-war as triage and network sensor
arrays have.then there would be no need for this '
must have asteroid targeted' sillynessas for the yield,
i think it pushes the risk vs reward too far towards
risk for smaller entities to continue using. with the
original yield, you could repay the full cost of a
rorqual including drones, with about 20 hours
mining.with the present yield, its closer to 50 hours
and after the patch, it will be near 85h constant
mining in order to repay the costs of the ship. these
times do not include the time spent re positioning due
to the increased belt spread, which will push the
figure out to 120h of mining to repay the initial cost of
a rorqual setup.a carrier can repay its initial
investment in 12 hours and is not stuck in the same
place, a supercarrier can repay its self in 50 hours,
and cannot be tackled by an interceptor. so what i
see happening is people moving away from mining,
reducing the number of accounts they use and just
ratting for income instead.to improve the general
feeling of double nerf, the build requirements of the
excavators could be half''d to reflect their reduced
yield.
looks solid +1
probably the most knowledgeable chap i
have<U+FFFD>encountered in the game. he has a
passion for eve and teaching others.
smart and mature +1
hi and thanks for the reply.i agree with most of what
you wrote except for not having the ability to have
friendly standings with all empire factions. i think that
cuts off a lot of available content to players. also i'd
like to point out that pirate faction standings will still
be negative after gaining high standings with empire
factions.when i gave the 'faction standing repair plan'
to the eve community in the forums, it gave players
the knowledge to change their standings and engage
in content they previously couldn't access. however
that info isn't readily available in-game and as such a
lot of players are still missing out on accessing
content due to lack of knowledge.i think all players
should have the option in-game to invoke diplomatic
immunity with the empire factions. the fact that the
info pertaining to that is hidden from players in-game
is the reason for my post.anyway, thanks again for
the reply and good luck with the election.dmc
i just wanted to stop by, and say that i fully endorse
suitonia- and he has my vote. there can be no better
person to fight for a better eve than this man. if i am
going to send anyone to iceland to have face to face
time with the devs, it should be this
man.*competent*knowledgeable*experienced*doesn't
answer to any in-game entity
i am a kestrel alt, and i approve of this campaign.
hi it great that votes come round but question is even
though your are logged in it says you just can`t vote
even though you have omega account, why is that?
xenuria, i was pleasantly surprised with how well you
did on the csm last term. this is why you received my
vote this year, and i hope you have the opportunity to
contribute in a similarly positive fashion with the next
csm. good luck!
never vote for this guy. his vision is blobbing. dude
has no honor in pvp.
how so? my vision definitely isn't for blob online, and i
don't think i ever advocated for that... but i appreciate
the bump friend. remember to vote in the elections!
i'd appreciate a slot on your ballot but voting for any
candidate is voting for a better eve!
hey steve, keep up the great work! you got my #1
vote(s) again this year.
from alliance tournament, exploration to capital fights
i always like to get into new parts of this game.and
yes i have done these things and many more in my
time. also have lived in all 3, high, low and
null.additionally the meta and political game around
eve is a whole additional level to get into. which is
even more fun with this strongly rooted and
impressive community. it's a challenging game, a
place to explore things, to make friends and fight
wars. but that makes it also hard to get into. i think we
need to make sure that the community can evolve
with new players getting into it and staying for longer.
as an alliance brave collective has the goal to help
new players and that is what attracted me to them.i
stand behind that but also behind the idea of players
evolving and doing their own thing. for that all sides of
the game must be preserved and improved. for that i
stand. i specifically choose not to have a platform, but
come as an all-round player with different
experiences who wants to improve the experience for
all and not bump one specific topic. as much as the
nda will allow me, i want to include you into my
feedback to ccp.reddit ama:
hi there :)i am trying to vote for you but your name
doesn't seem to be appearing on the vote page? just
thought id inform. cheersfrom an nz supporter
hi,what is your view on an option to put corpshares
on the market ?
bump vor vote !!!
for those of you who i haven't yet annoyed in fleets,
please allow me to introduce myself: i'm the ludocrat,
and i'm asking for your support in running for csm
2017.i joined a nullsec alliance about a year and a
half ago, after being a miner, an explorer, mission
runner, and a wormholer at various points in my four
year eve career so far.fcon is an amazing community,
and through it i've found even more amazing and
diverse group of badasses in the universe at large. in
fact, you've all inspired me to run for csm. so please
vote for me!why should you? well, i'll advocate your
playstyle, always try to be fair to all sides and,
perhaps most importantly, i promise to work hard to
not only preserve this bizarre game we've come to
know and love, but to prepare it for the future
improvements we all know it needs. it's up to us to do
this!so i humbly ask for your support. i may be not the
best pvper, most productive miner, or widest ranging
explorer, but i genuinely care about those playstyles
and the many others available to us in this incredible
place we call new eden.ok! enough of the mushy
stuff! please vote the ludocrat for csm
2017!!!sincerely,your friendly neighborhood
ludocrattl;dr:ludo will work for you. things will get
better. vote for ludo! \o/
kalibuir has been one of the cornerstones of horde
and especially it's new player experience. i started
playing eve 6 years ago where i quit a few months
later due to bad experiences in null corps ...especially
for a newbie to null like me. i created a new char and
joined horde a few months ago, as a day one char.
the support system horde has for newbeans is
amazing, and made me sub to this game for the
foreseeable future. as someone who has a
background in the software industry i believe i can
appreciate all the work that kalibuir had put into
making the horde infrastructure the way it is now. the
gobloons system and the new bean initiatives are
great examples. i know , without a shade of doubt
that kalibuir would be the perfect candidate for csm.
gl kalibuir!
updated links to include q&a with eve-nt.i'd
appreciate if you added me to your ballot!!!!
looks like toxic yaken is
ok, i will not try to argue whether i think sucide
ganking or the actions of bumbing intill your fleet
comes along is allowed or not. i am not good with
words and pv players will always argue, and ccp
wants pvp actions. it is simple. have a 100% vote in
both alpha and omega accounts. 100% of the
accounts for a 30 day period. even give some type of
award for voteing. and when you give the answer of
who voted on what. give the answer of how many %
voted based on how many total accutally voted, not
how many total accounts polay eve. but ask all the
accounts during that 30 nday period, ask how many
players think succide ganking showed be allowed.
period. put it up to the player base. and since ccp
claims that this is a pvp game. then the pvp should
vote and win. i petrsonally dont think succide ganking
should be allowed. what % of the total accounts on
the record for a 30 day period. how many accounts
want succide ganking not to be legal. of course we
are going to argue whether it will be total accounts,
one per account to be allowed to vote or one per real
person (no matter how many accounts per that
person) ius allowe3d to vote. that is another
arguement all together. and if some one want to try to
put this in a better describale way, go for it. i will eve
read it again and tell ya if that is what i mean to say.
thanks for reading this, and hopefully it will be treated
with seriouness.
an yet high sec ganking is still ultimately left in rng
hands as that cargo could self destruct.
first off voting sucks. it is a terrible way to make
decisions. there is nothing to say that voting will give
a "good" outcome. there have been a number of
people who have looked at this (link, link, link, link).
voting should be analyzed via game theory and one
thing about game theory is that the optimal outcomes
are never ensured. so even if the truly optimal answer
is "more suicide ganking" there is no mechanism in
voting to ensure this is the outcome.second many
people who are the subject of suicide ganking have
literally zero awareness of what is going on in the
wider game. none. even when burn jita is announced
weeks ahead, even when people are sitting 1, 2, or 3
jumps from systems where ganks happen...here
come the freighters, fat, dumb and often full of
loot.more over, even if the vote is: more suicide
ganking, that will do nothing to stop the whiners.
they'll be back here whining about how so-and-so
was dumb and foolish and put 8 billion isk in his
freighter and clicked undock and flew through
uedama without a scout.additionally, the idea of
voting and imposing a top down solution is
antithetical to the philosophy of the game. this is a
game that is an open, classless game--i.e. a sandbox.
players drive the game. if suicide ganking is an
issue...players should find the solution. don't overload
your freighter, don't autopillock, use a scout, tank
your freighter, use a webber, use standings, use
local, stop being a doormat and letting everyone walk
all over you. jump in a combat ship with some friends
and gank the bumping macherial. use your combat
ships to try and shoot the gankers, many of whom are
-5 or lower in terms of security status. if they have kill
rights activate those and shoot them.nope, by all
means lets vote and remove all that potential content.
one last thing, gtfo. welcome to new eden.
its a given it shouldn't be allowed at the price its
allowed today. way to easy and risk free. not allowed
at all? it should be but it should be a gamble and the
empty freighter killing were seeing everyday should
be a rarity only for the very rich.
orchestrating a successful freighter gank has a lot
more complexity than just simple f1 smashing when
descending on the target. there are logistics, people
management, ship distribution, scouting, scanning,
warp-in positioning, bumping, etc. and that does not
even involve the additional steps and precautions
and adjustments you have to take if ag tries to
interfere.to simply state "ganking is easy and should
be more complicated/expensive" is not an argument
for anything. it is a cheap attempt to misrepresent a
game mechanic in order to make some equally silly
"fix" seam valid.there are tons of really simple game
mechanics like mining in this game which deserve a
lot more attention if you care to make isk acquiring
harder.
this is so wildly misleading. the benefits that accrue to
suicide gankers are due only and totally to the
foolishness of players. balancing the game on players
foolishness and imprudence is just simply idiotic.oh,
and outside of burn events how many empty
freighters are ganked? i mean truly empty? no double
wrapped courier packages.and yes, burn events are
an example of the "very rich" killing any and all
freighters. it is subsidized by goons, one of the
richest alliances in game.
seriously, does anybody think the following is
reasonable?"some players are foolish and imprudent.
they take huge risks, either knowingly or
unknowingly. and when it becomes known these
players have taken huge risks, other players seek to
take advantage of this. this is bad. we need to change
the game so that players are protected from their own
foolishness and imprudence."--signed every anti-
ganker everywhere in game

almost happened to me, i was racing a hurricane for
the gate in a itaron 1 in my 4 day old character. lucky
no smart bombs...
on csm vote. youy only get to vote for 1 person per
your account. alpha or omegai hate to be stupid, but i
cant find the answer
1 vote, per omega account.no votes for alphas
(because of the massive voter fraud which would
happen)
more director level slack leaks (tm)
special thanks to mindclash for having me on the
show last night with suitonia.
i always thought that corp shares were kind of
strange considering they mainly seem exist to control
power over the corporation and create the necessity
for holding corps... and i honestly can't think of any
groups actually selling shares to payout
shareholders. it seems like a neat idea though i could
see a lot of players using it for exploitation, as you
could sell shares for your corporation and then just
fold the corp. having better visibility for groups that
legitimately want to seek investments in game would
be cool though, and kind of feeds in my hopes for
having a services hub as i mentioned in my platform.
happy to have devils on my shoulder :)
o7
happy to have your support random. also more
highdrag please <3
so whilst running around in my transport ships and
keeping an eye on zkillboard to check out where
hotspots of ganking are, i saw this:
you get my bullets and my vote.
it has always been the case that you win sov most
efficiently by running away from fights. this has been
disheartening to many players who have been in
faction war and i believe is the main reason why the
vast majority of eve players think fw is a joke. you will
see how people gain sov most effectively by looking
those who get the most vp (ie, captured the most
plexes) for the week or day and then look at how they
fit their ships. this website allows you to see who
gained the most vp per day or week:
one more campaign thing that i'm hearing that a lot in
the wormhole community want is better access to ore
belts. we do not want the ore belts like they are in
null, never dying, but we want a larger spawn pool,
so for those who enjoy mining, they can make more
money and more profitability on it.
thanks for offering some views on faction war. gorski
never would respond to players and certainly never
responded to me when i was told to talk to him about
fw. i realize that allot of people have different views
on fw. i actually like the idea of splitting up the war
into 1v1v1v1 for the reasons you give. but i don't
think that is the crux of the problem with faction war.
the main problem has always been the case that you
win sov most efficiently by running away from fights.
this has been disheartening to many players who
have been in faction war and i believe is the main
reason why the vast majority of eve players think fw
is a joke. you will see how people gain sov most
effectively by looking those who get the most vp (ie,
captured the most plexes) for the week or day and
then look at how they fit their ships. this website
allows you to see who gained the most vp per day or
week:
aaaaand voted. best of luck rhiload =) cheering for
ya.
still open for questions/comments
do you have any thoughts on changes to moon goo
production/ t2 industry?
same
same here. your name is not on the list. i was going
to vote for you just for the aspect of highsec events,
though i am against your war dec change. allowing a
fee payable to concord will effectively kill all wardecs
as everyone will do it. if you limit it to corporations
with a low member count as others have suggested
in the ideas and suggestions sub-forum, then that will
get abused to hell and back and we will see a heavy
increase in one-man corporations and less people
will work together.the only way i can see that even
remotely working is if you limit the 'concord bribe' to
once/twice a year that protects them for one month
and then lock all characters in that corp for the whole
year to stop them jumping and creating a new corp to
do it again. corp hopping is the bane of war decs
currently, which is why everyone gets decced. you
dec 25 active 50+ member corps and maybe just 8 or
9 people from each corp will log in during that time.
out of that 8/9, maybe half of them will remain in corp
and not leave or create a new corp. out of those 4 or
5 remaining active players, you may be lucky and
catch one person undocked. this is why every tom,
**** and harry gets wardecced over nothing.if you are
going to make any change to the wardec system, you
need to see it from the aggressors view first (unless
you plan on removing war dec's completely). its far
too easy to run from a wardec and this leads to
everyone getting wardecced repeatedly just to get the
tiniest amount of content for players. a revised
wardec system will need to be built from the ground
up, keep the aggressors happy with content, give the
defenders an ability to end the war that benefits both
parties (not isk related), remove corp hopping, etc.
but then again, if corps and alliance just worked
together, undocked and fought the mercs instead of
staying docked and crying about griefing, then we
wouldn't need to change wardecs.

he is not a candidate
we definitely could use more functionality with the
corp shares mechanic. right now it feels like corp
shares were introduced with no clear vision as to how
it should be used.in the future i would like to see
development of the corp shares feature along the
lines of actually being a way to value the corporation
that could distribute it. execution will be difficult but
moving towards getting corp shares in line with rl
shares as a way to value a company would be great.
of course this would mean that it would have to be
tradable and that in and of itself could be an
interesting direction to start moving towards.before
we can be in a place where corp shares could be
tradable in the market, i'm afraid we'll have to
address corp mechanics as a whole first. that may be
the greatest technical barrier. if ccp is willing to take
on that challenge then i would like to see corp shares
become a tradable commodity.eve has so much
potential for meta market play and corp shares is one
example of that potential. as a csm candidate, i would
like to be there when ccp is ready to take steps
towards that.
i'm curious to know what you think of moon goo...
specifically, most industrialists in smaller null sec
corps are completely reliant on jita to make any tii in
null. do you think there should be changes to make
null sec industrialists less reliant on high sec trade
hubs and allow for corporations to be more self
sufficient? if so, what are your ideas or how do you
go through the process of getting those ideas?
what are you referring to? faction warfare standings?
faction standings over all with regards to mission
running?
                                                       1
my crossing zebras interview:
interview with eve_nt now live, huge thanks to these
guys for not only publishing me, but the other
candidates as well
from the handful of podcasts i listen to, i have a few
candidates in mind. as a fairly casual player, i'm not
familiar with most of the candidates and the amount
of information to sift through to make an informed
decision is immense.i'm interested in voting for a
candidate that has expertise in industry and non-high
sec trade/commerce.i'm willing to do additional
research into your recommendation, but i need a little
help sifting through the stack.thanks!
for non-highsec industry and commerce i'd
recommend sullen decimus and erika mizune off the
top of my head.
drop me a line buddy. would be happy to chat.

same ive worked with many
there are plenty of us out there, it seems.
the verifiable data (zkill) shows the above to be
bullshite. the majority of ganks of freighters appear to
be empty or near empty. the weapon of choice
(stealth bombers) often costing more than the empty
or near empty freighter. not many have plastic
wrap.disagree go check zkiill.lol ganking a freighter is
so easy some are multiboxing it. again go check zkill
but i'm sure you already know this.mining /
missioning takes actual risk. they undock in valuable
ships at least on their mains and have to deal with the
constant threat of 40 year old preteens who appear to
think they're irl actual space pirates and devs who
have no idea how to manage the game or decipher
pie charts - yeah that big slice with 90% on it that's
your potential pve subscriber base. the 9% is pvp
and the 1% or less are wan... gankers
there are maybe one or two guys in the entire game
who are even able to multibox large numbers of gank
chars to kill freighters. to call something easy just
because one guy is doing it successfully is just
blatant trolling and has nothing to do with a real
argument.they are also not the ones who kill empty
freighters as you can see quite clearly on zkill. kusion
as an example (there isn't probably any other
anyway) almost exclusively hits valuable ships.the
only reason why empty freighters are killed are:- big
events like burn jita where people just gank
everything for entertainment- big fleets with many
people where you need to provide content to keep
fleet cohesionthose are very good reasons and
unavoidable once you realise that eve is actually
played by people and they are here for
entertainment. 20 people will not sit in station for
hours just to wait for that one big 20bil isk
fish.highsec is so safe it probably takes less time to
research how to make your chosen profession
gankproof than it took you to write this troll post. ccp
provided all the tools to make mining, missioning and
hauling so save you are almost completely
untouchable. a good pve player has absolutely
nothing to fear from a ganker, since he can
completely avoid them with some simple steps which
are pretty obvious and well known.the only people
who get ganked are people who are foolish and
imprudent and don't invest any effort at all to protect
their ships or belongings. it is not ccps job or in any
interest of the game to protect people who are simply
just bad at the game especially since this is a
multiplayer sandbox which even promotes and
encourages piracy gameplay.
show your data. i've gone and looked and there are
damn few i can find that are truly empty. i found 2 that
were truly empty, but 1 was a war dec, the other was
not a dec based on the ships used in the kill. i looked
at obelisks from march 5-feb. 28.i can only conclude
you are a liar.
so according to you its both extremely hard to set up
a gank and only foolish over loaders of cargo get
ganked and at the same time gankers gank empty
freighters out of boredom. also in lalaland single
pilots multibox freighter ganks not because its easy
but because they are amazing and your fleets with 15
to 80 players depending on sec status still find it
extremely taxing.time to get back to reality. anything
that can be multiboxed by a single player is trivial for
a fleet.
there are only a couple of people who are even able
to multibox ganks on the level that you are able to
gank freighters. also that multiboxing has limits and
even kusion can't gank properly tanked freighters,
you need a fleet of people.it's not really an argument
to just call it "easy" just because "someone" is able to
do it. especially if it is pretty obvious that only a
handful of player in the entire game is able to do it at
all while for everyone else it is completely out of
reach.the reason why you do it anyway is quite clear.
it is well known that you are in favour of completely
removing non-consensual pvp from highsec and you
somehow think to label the profession as easy
without showing any evidence will convince someone
it is in need of more nerfs.fleet pvp and solo pvp are
two completely different things. the game mechanics
are the same, but the real challenge of a fleet is not
the game mechanics or the difficulty of a certain job,
but the people skills of the fc which has to hold it all
together and coordinate the other players. this is far
from trivial and only a hand full of people are really
good at it.
what empty freighters? aside from burn events where
are we seeing this? you keep saying this, but i don't
see much evidence of it.
im a new player - inb4 who does this noob think he is
having an opinion - but im looking at making a corp
and as much as i can make a 'cool name' because
there are a million ways to write something with so
many characters available, the ticker is really
annoying me that i cant have the acronym for my
corp... i have tried several different corp names in an
attempt to find a unique ticker but have come up
spades... i suggest we reopen this discussion as
found here.
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
good day cochise!i understand where you're coming
from and totally get the frustration level of hi-sec
ganking. from a game play perspective, ccp wants to
see no where in eve as being 100% safe, just a
scaled level of risk. ganking is an activity that pits the
risk vs reward mechanic against a players initiative
and planning and i really think it needs to stay in the
game. as you even state, there are player driven anti-
gank squads up and running to try and counter this
game play which adds even more complexity to the
world of eve. to speak plainly, my stance is that
ganking is in an "ok" spot right now with a few minor
areas that can and probably should be adjusted. let
me explain:for one, there is still a lot to be said for
disrupting or delaying concord response time. some
groups will use tactics that are intended to disrupt or
stop concord from responding to a gank attempt in a
timely manner and this is something i would like to
see addressed with ccp. i also am willing to present
the ideas you mentioned to the csm and ccp and
have a more robust discussion regarding this topic to
see if there are any areas of the game mechanics
that are being abused or that can be tweaked to allow
for a better game play experience. -claevyan
thank you all for your kind words and
recommendations, and hopefully your votes as well.
if you have any further questions, let me know, i'd be
happy to answer them. also, i just put out csm xi's last
quarterly review, which contains some of the
thoughts of us on both the past term, and the ongoing
election. i'm also happy that the csm podcast, hosted
by apothne, has been able to hit it's stride this time
with third episode up. i really hope we're able to
continue this into the csm 12 term :)
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
first of all, as you might have seen, i ran a highsec
ganking roundtable and am familliar with the
concerns of both sides. i think that right now perma-
bumping is the most degenerate part of that
mechanic, as it is the definition of gamebreaking (the
only way to counter a bumper is with another
bumper). however, bumping in and of itself is a
needed mechanic, as it gives a way for the actual
interaction to take place. as such i've talked to fozzie
about the idea he presented last fanfest (of ships
entering warp after a given amount of time spent
bumping off things) in detail, understanding how it
might be implemented and what issues it would
present in other areas of the game.i think that the
idea you've presented would make logical in-universe
sense, however given the way that the mechanics of
eve function with regards to crimewatch, that would
be hillariously difficult to implement, as the flag is
given by the action of looting, not the cargo itself. in
addition to this, the csm is not a junior game
development, and whilst yes we could champion an
idea, ccp is very, very unlikely to actually implement
it. and i can say that from having made that mistake
in my current term. so, no, i wouldn't push it. however
i have been willing to talk to both sides this term and
discuss what their main issues are and how they
operate so that if ccp wants to know about how either
side works and what they do, or if i spot an
opportunity to touch on a qol benefit for either side, i'll
take it. at the end of the day, it's difficult to make
ganking 'dangerous' as it's a mathematically solved
problem without the interaction with players that the
hisec militia provides, or introducing some form of
hard rng into the game (which i find to be inherently
un-eve). i find many people use it as an obfuscating
term for making ganking 'harder' as they feel it's too
easy, and perhaps that's a valid stance, but i dislike
the way it's presented in that manner. i - and both the
gankers and anti-gankers i've talked to - feel that
introducing more room for interaction on the ganker
and anti-ganker side would improve the overall
experience for both sides of the law, and the
potential victim. still, i'm always open for reasoned
discussion here, so feel free to present any counter-
arguments you have :)
i can no longer fit any more links in my original post
in this thread. the press tour is too strong compaired
to forum character limit.
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
let me sneak in here for a bit./rantas someone who
ships billions a month, i would like the warzones
between empires to be extended, no continues
highsec between the major trade hubs. at least 1/2
low sec hops on each high way.then the highsec
ganking on traderoutes would be a whole other
discussion and local tradehubs would be booming.as
for mining, the bulk of mining volumes is centered in
certain systems in eve (see the regional economical
reports by ccp quant). the people mining there ask to
be ganked.in a game where everything is based on
risk vs reward, people should understand that it is
stupid to mine in systems with huge number of
people with mining equipment. go mine in khanid, or
kor-azor and you are the king of the ore belts (saying
you want to mine in highsec in the first place). no
gankers in the whole constellation.please mine
smarter, not more political correct./end rant
"schr<U+FFFD>dinger's missile. i dig it." ~ makari
aeron
so here is my thoughts.. so keep in mind ive been
ganked my fair share. ganking is mostly preventable
in a few ways. 1. move less value at 1 time2.
webbing alts3. mining in scarcely populated
systems4. other ways possible.now is it particularly
engaging gameplay when it happens. no. is it fun ....
for the aggressor yes. for defence its more or less a
suprize colonoscopy and has and does cause people
to quit eve. thats the scope in which my opionion is
formed. now its been nerfed several times and i think
freighters are roughly where they need to be. on the
risk vs reward balance.the existance of counter play
is nessesary. and i think it would be better to look at
unlimited bumping and setting a limit to it vs making a
major change again to ganking.
* you can find a german post on the german eve-o-
forum*f<U+FFFD>r alle deutschsprachigen eve-
spieler gibt es im deutschen forum einen eigenen
post:
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.

hey cochise!thank you for your post - let me try to
answer it:burn jita is basically an operation to kill
supply lines that gets out of hand massively during
this yearly event. you should try to think of it in that
frame to formulate your response - and i think your
reaction was the best one an eve player could have
had. they gank, you protect. there are whole groups
going to jita during the event with logis to rep random
people up or hunt the gankers.do i help out players
who got ganked from time to time (mostly ones who
obviously put all their belongings into a freighter and
lost it and are relatively new), cause it hurts just to
see the killmail ;)i think, ganking is part of the game
(which i can fight against in-game --> content!) and it
has been nerfed in the last years to tone it down. i
would definitely look at it to try and find a balance
between haulers and gankers - something that let's
prepared haulers hold out until concord arrives from
time to time but also something that does not totally
break this playstyle.i think that your proposal is
definitely something i will keep in mind. hope that
clears up a bit where i stand.interesting viewpoint
from the ganker's side (know your enemy):
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
it wasn't faction police that killed him, it was faction
navy. different thing. you get attacked by them for
bad faction standings, not bad sec status. and you do
get a popup warning when you try jumping into
hghsec while under -5.0 sec.of course, ther could be
a separate popup for jumping into hostile imperial
systems, but where's the hilarity in that?
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
thank you for taking the time to post in my thread...
and by the looks of it in lots of other threads too!
there cannot be enough engaging of the candidates
to encourage debate.which information did you read?
i asked which information you read because i
addressed and posted the subject of high sec
ganking in my opening post in this thread. i also
included links to where i talked about it in more detail
in my campaign threads last year and the year
before, and on my (seldom used) blog. as it happens,
high sec ganking is one of the most important themes
for me!as you say... you read the information i
posted... but obviously you are still unclear on where i
stand. do you have any specific questions about what
i wrote that i could help you with?i was proud to have
been the csmx candidate endorsed by the anti-
ganking community and channel. especially proud
because i did not actively court them, but dedicated
members read through all the relevant candidates
and decided that i was as close to a candidate that
represented what they felt. they helped me come in
15th place in the election... sadly people in high sec
have been losing interest in the csm since then.and
there was me thinking that you read what i
wrote...before i get any further, have you tried high
sec ganking? do you have an idea how difficult and
dangerous it already is? (see campaign thread #1
back when i was the anti-ganking candidate for some
discussion on this:
thanks for the correction. what gets on my nerves is
that some things are completely babysat (i get
warnings when i accept a distribution mission if the
cargo does not fit in my active ship... i get warnings
when i try undocking without the cargo on my ship -
no really!) and other things are not. by having so
much babysitting it is hard for carebears to know
what gets warned and what doesn't... and it leads to a
false (unfair) sense of security. i mean if the game
warns me that i am undocking without cargo, it warns
me when concord are going to turn off my engines
and blap me... why wouldn't it warn me that the navy
are going to fry me?i would plead for consistency.
partial babysitting is not fun from my perspective.
this is the core of my candidacy. i have no illusions
about the challenges ahead. my role, as i see it, is to
bring transparency and accountability to the position.
which means over communicating with the
community and partnering with ccp and my csm
colleagues to advance our change requests.fw can't
remain on the cutting room floor. as a dedicated fw /
low sec representative that would not happen with
me on the csm team.ashterothi - endorsting me:
2nd!he sums up why i am the fw / low sec candidate.
if you have not heard my interview with him, the first
7 minutes of this feedback from him will shed some
light. we need to be a united front to get to the table.i
look forward to serving you. former executor templis
calsf alliance
nice! yes very excited about all of this. if the teams
feel that i can be the voice this will work. it's not
about being an expert in an eve mechanic. its about
being an expert in relationships and having integrity.
something i do and have everyday. we can be heard
with me at the csm table. former executor templis
calsf alliance
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
eve is a sandbox game. expect to get dusty, in all
secs. every time you undock, you consent to pvp,
including in highsec. i have an alt in red-frog freight. i
know that one day, my hauler will be ganked. it's part
of the game. beyond this, i don't have an opinion
whether highsec gameplay or the crimewatch system
need to be adjusted.lillik
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
i encourage you to sit on what needs to be done to
successfully suicide gank something. if you're not
flying an untanked t1 hauler, there's a lot of math,
planning, and execution that already needs to go into
it before the first f1 press. i think it's totally reasonable
as it stands right now in that regard. for example,
ganking something like a freighter, takes planning
and coordination by upwards of 30-40 ships so that
dealing with concord happens at the right point and
everything like that. on top of that, it is quite
dangerous for the ganker. they 100% lose their ship,
guaranteed, and if they find some way around it, it's a
bannable exploit. so while i sympathize with your
plight of flying a hauler and occasionally getting
ganked, i offer you some counter play.1) train your
character to fly t2 haulers, dsts are awesome boats in
highsec, and its not uncommon to find people hauling
in them will a billion+ in loot. they are quite tanky for
their size (buffer tanked impels for example can
break 100k ehp), and can still haul very fast if you
know what you are doing (pulse mwd and warp, shut
off mwd, when the cycle ends you go into warp, and
it warps faster than most battleships).on the flipside
to the dst, the blockade runner, while not having the
immense cargo hold that the dst has, it has incredible
speed, and you can't be cargo scanned. what this
means is that if someone is going to gank you, they
won't be able to tell whether you're carrying 1 carbon,
or 100 plex. and in highsec, as long as you're not afk
piloting, you're very unlikely to be caught (the only
places i tend to see blockade runners getting ganked
is on trade station undocks, which can be fixed by
burning an insta-warp location for when you leave
station (you take a fast ship, undock, hit prop mod, go
get a drink, go to the bathroom, come back and
bookmark where the ship is. using it, you undock and
immediately right-click and warp to bookmark, and
you're typically off the undock within 2-4s of
undocking).i get that you want to see members of the
ganking community punished, but the idea of giving
criminal flags for people who scoop the loot off a
destroyed hauler like that is just silly. what if
someone who was fast and on the ball scooped the
loot from the ganker? why should they suffer for
being able to be faster than someone?overall, i
honestly feel like this mechanic is already in a very
stable place, and should work out well as is. i would
not propose anything like this to ccp or push for any
major changes at this point regarding changing how
ganking works in highsec. there is a lot that goes into
it, a lot of effort and planning more than "lololololololol
f1! die nub!" and the people who successfully pull this
off should be given a chance to get a reward for their
efforts.i'm sorry if this isn't the answer that you want
to hear, but i believe ccp has is right, eve is hard,
learn from your mistakes, get better, plan better, and
then succeed.
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
thanks for the response, i definately aim to keep
communication open as much as possible.i am
certainly open to the idea of rollbacks and think that
they would be an improvement over what we have
now. my only concern with rollbacks is that it may
allow pirate groups and outside forces influence and
defend fw space. i like an alternative idea of speeding
up reverse progress by say 4x.for example, a typical
fw farmer is in a novice, he has gotten the 10 minute
timer down to 5 minutes. a pvp player from the
opposite faction warps in and he warps off. the pvp
player now reverses his 5 minutes progress by 4
seconds every 1 second he is there, undoing his 5
minutes of progress in 1.25 minutes. i feel like this
encourages people to fight, creates a sense of
urgency and also prevents people from reshipping to
hard counters because if they do, they lose their
progress. while preventing outside forces like pirate
groups and unaffiliated pilots from influencing the
warzone as much. regarding real time intel, i think
adding in a live intel log about recently captured
plexes would be a great idea to help players find
content and defend plexes. you can already compare
the contested % on the api every 15 minutes if you
use a 3rd party tool, but this is not available to
everyone. would be nice to have a 'recently captured
plex' option on the map, as well as a log in the fw ui
listing the last 20 captured plexes, and maybe
suppressable fw noticiations that militia pilots can
have that send notifications whenever a plex is
captured in a friendly system. i will certainly ask ccp
about undelivered fw features and encourage them to
revamp fw since i think it's an important aspect of the
npe.contributer to eve is easy:

not really a question, but i think you should bug ccp
to introduce a hotkey for applying nanite paste to
repair modules damaged from overheating. should
be a-la overheating itself. for example, shift+keypress
starts/stops module overheat, control+keypress could
start/stop nanite repair for the same module. or
whatever you bind it to.
yes this would be great, in regards to nanite paste, i'd
also like to see 'cost to repair' when you mouse over
a damaged module, we have a visual grey circle
when its being repaired, but it would be nice when
you're repairing a module it has an actual timer on it
(like when reloading) when you mouse over the
repairing module. it would also be nice if you could
attempt to do a partial repair, in several instances i've
had experiences where i had 100 or so paste, but my
guns are damaged, it would be nice if i could just
repair them to the level that i can do with my paste,
instead of it completely failing, instead, i have to
ungroup my guns and apply, cancel half way through
and repeat, which is annoying. contributer to eve is
easy:
thanks for the response.the intel tool would need to
let pilots know where timers are being run before the
plex is captured - or the purpose is defeated. after
they are captured its too late to defend them. i am not
really sure why we would weaken the rollbacks to
only work for militias. a very sizable percent of people
in plexes are not in militias so this would insulate
rabbit plexers from them. i am not sure why we would
want to do that. also i am not sure why a pvper
should have to stay in the plex for it to roll back. again
it just seems to weaken the rollback effect. but any
rollback is better than no rollback. i just question
whether this weakened rollback alone will be enough
to make it so you win sov by fighting rather than by
running away. its interesting that you refer to fw as
part of the npe. i'm not exactly sure what defines the
new player experience but how ever we define it is
fine i suppose. my experience is that corporations like
the one you are in now tend to give far more
guidance to new players than any fw corp i have
joined. do you think fw should be more in the npe
than null sec?make faction war occupancy pvp
instead of pve
if the majority of players pvping in fw space are not in
militias maybe that's a problem in itself, maybe what
i'm describing is not a problem. i just like to play
devil's advocate and seek out alternative suggestions
as it's often the best way to get discussions going. fw
gives players rewards if they don't get a fight, in a
ideal situation you either get a fight or if you get
"blueballed" you make money. given the plex
mechanics insulating ship types, fights taking place in
static environments and a metagame with little
evolution, it's probably the 'easiest' pvp to get into. i
don't think the fw should be refocused or changed to
be more npe, i just think fw is usually the place where
people who get bored of pve and want to try pvp end
up looking first.the instant intel thing seems like it
could be a bit too strong, and way too spammy? as
someone just checking a plex would spam the intel
and you wouldn't get too much use from it? you need
to capture 150 plexes to take a system from 0 to
100% anyway. so it's not like someone can surprise
flip a system. again, if this is something fw players
are deadset on, i'm happy to take it up, i just think
ccp will be very hesitant with this, because of their
recent focus on active scouting for intel (with sov
entosis nodes/timers, astrahus vulnerability timers
etc.) plex captured is already in the game as an
option if you use api tools.contributer to eve is easy:
one of the things that i want changed with fw is the
way you deplex. deplexing can be one of the most
boring, uninteresting and disengaging things in eve.
you just sit there, for 20 minutes at time in some
cases, babysitting an npc. yes, sometimes there are
fights. but for the most part, many players that i talk
to, have no enthusiasm for deplexing. they just want
to get out there and blow **** up. at least with
oplexing you "get" to blow up an npc ship once in
awhile. but i find it hard to motivate my corp mates to
deplex. when we need to deplex a system, it sounds
like a chore to them and that's definitely not what
playing a game is about. however, if we don't deplex,
we'll lose our system and our assets will get locked
inside the station. so it's one of those grinds that you
just have to do.
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.

i'm an useless nobody but rhiload you got my vote
because i like solo pvp stuff. i'm not very vocal
usually but i wanted to show my support.good luck!
o7
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
hello chochise,so here's the deal. i do not believe
there is anything wrong with the current set of
mechanics related to ganks in hisec. i will cover this
in a few different ways.i lose a lot of ships. i have lost
so much isk and ships in ways that are retrospectively
silly beyond question and show nothing but
hilariously poor judgement and lack of situational
awareness. however, on any of my characters, i have
never lost a freighter or jump freighter. there's a
reason for this - taking even the most basic
precautions makes them extremely hard to gank.
some people lose them yes, but considering how
successful red frog/black frog are when they are
dedicated professionals to this aspect of the game,
and how rarely they lose one, it speaks volumes
about both rewarding specialization and how safe
you really can be in those ships. i spend a surprising
amount of time in freighters. the hull hp buff was
incredible too, they have already given freighters a
huge buff.when they re-balanced t1 industrials, they
went nuts. you are basically un-gankable in hisec as
it is if you...don't auto-pilot.use the ample fitting they
give you to have some tank. some can take 2 or
more tornado vollies, easily!use instant-undocks and
instant-dock bookmarksuse a webbing alt.use a
scout.most of the complaints about hisec are born
out of unfamiliarity with mechanics and expectation of
safety. you generally can only be ganked if you let
yourself be ganked. you should try it from the other-
side (perhaps on an alt ), it will really give you a
sense of not making yourself a target. if you want to
beat the gankers, don't get caught, and teach your
fellow hisec residents how to stay safe. there is
nothing more frustrating, in hi, low, or null, than trying
to hunt smart targets!

hi chandice rantel of pandemic horde inc, thank you
for answering.so you had this same problem want to
vote cannot vote this needs to be shown to all plays,
and we need get their on this and asking why we
can`t vote even though we have omega accounts.
get their views on this...........i mean.
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
hi steve.what is your opinion on ganking?which one
of those three statements is close to your position?
:1. danger level in highsec is just right.2. life is too
easy for gankers. we need more security in
highsec.3. highsec dwellers are too lazy and
complacent. we need to make highsec more
dangerous.p.s.love your indy tools :)thanks.
pretty much 1. i _would_ like to see bumping being
adjusted, mostly because being bumped for 30
minutes just doesn't feel right, but other than that,
fine.
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
the main problem i can see with the loot, is that it'll be
hard to maintain a stolen flag on a stack. right now,
the only thing which is maintained is the number.
then what happens when you merge it with another
stack? or split the stacks? and how long does it last?
it's a nice idea in principle, but i'm not sure how
practical it is.the _main_ change i want to see is with
long term bumping. so at least the people doing the
ganking have to sacrifice a warp scrambler/disruptor
fit ship every so often, if they want to bump a freighter
for 30 minutes.
+2 for all your hard work, don't give it up.
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
edit wtf happened there delete this plz mods
i think npc standings as they currently pertain to
anything besides agents is just an enormous
inconvenience without adding any real flavour to the
game. for example once being exposed to it, the vast
majority of people liked the removal of the need to
have 8.0 faction standings to use jump clone services
in an npc station. i'd like to see faction police
removed for much the same reasons. if you spent a
few months in faction warfare or maybe running null
sec level 4s, they're just a hassle that'll follow you
round for the rest of your eve career unless you put a
bunch of effort into fixing them. for someone like me
who has a ton of alts it's not really a big deal, but i
can imagine knowing the repercussions of this would
put a lot of newer players off from trying out those
otherwise fun activities.
thanks for the reply.personally i think faction
standings should have a more meaningful impact on
game play, especially since eve online is based on
having a balance in 'risk vs reward' and 'actions vs
consequences'. that's what makes this game great. in
the past characters were accountable for their
actions, now most everything is being dumbed down
and turned into easy mode for the instant gratification
crowd. that's something i don't want to see happen to
faction standings. currently the in-game aspects of
faction standings :positive faction standings are the
only way to access cosmos agents (one time
access).positive faction and corporation standings
are needed to access research agents.all other
agents only require minimal amount of faction
standing for access (-2.00 or higher standing).high
faction standings reduce market broker fees and
reprocessing fees in npc stations.at -5.00 or lower
faction standing, empire npc's will attack when in
their space.in my opinion ccp made a big mistake
when they removed the need to have positive faction
standings to anchor pos in high sec space. having
that requirement made faction standings mean
something more instead of just a way to access
agents or to get lower broker fees. now i would love
to see more content pertaining to positive faction
standings be added to the game. however at this
time my inquiry is based on the negative effects of
faction standings to the playerbase. since it takes
time for players to ruin their faction standings then it
should also take some time to repair those standings.
unfortunately that info is basically nonexistent in-
game when it should actually be readily available and
easily understood by players.i created and shared the
'faction standing repair plan' with the playerbase on
the forums back in 2010. over the past 7 years it has
helped countless amount of players to rectify what
seemed like an unsolvable issue. in my opinion
players need more options available to repair
negative faction standings then what i've listed in that
guide. in fact most of those event agents can only be
accessed once in the characters life. there's a lot of
players in-game who don't read the forums and don't
know that guide exists. they've basically accepted the
fact they're cut off from engaging in available content
due to negative faction standings. repairing negative
standings is a big task even for experienced players
who are familiar with 'the plan'. new players who
haven't learned the game yet can easily mess up
their faction standings without even knowing it right
from the start, resulting in no access to half of empire
space.anyway, i think all players should have the
option in-game to gain diplomatic immunity with the
empire factions. the fact that the info pertaining to
faction standing repair is hidden from players in-
game is the reason for my post. after 7 years of
helping players in the forums to repair negative
faction standings, i just wanted to provide some
feedback through the csm for ccp to consider.i
believe these options would definitely help all players
in-game.faction standing repair process be
implemented in-game and be very intuitive, not
obscure (tutorial perhaps).changes to faction
standings will notify players with on screen pop up
message (option to deactivate).actions that would
cause negative faction standing trigger on screen
pop up warning (option to deactivate).all anti-empire
mission briefings have a warning informing players
those missions will incur negative faction
standings.implement tags for empire standings in-
game based on similar game mechanics as tags for
security.add npc agents to in-game agent finder for
faction standing repair (similar to proposal in my
forum signature).once again good luck with the
upcoming election.dmc
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.

right guys, i apologise for being late and missing the
last few responses.demichael crimson - in short i
believe that faction standings need to have more
ways to obtain them, plus they need to be used in
more cases to gain advantages. especially after the
loss of their use recently in situations such as jump-
clones.cochise chiricahua - so i would certainly say
that ganking is a legitimate style of play that can
spice stuff up in hisec. i would certainly like to see
some more challenge come to it afterwards like
picking up the loot as you suggested, after all they
are helping partake in said criminal activity. if i was a
member i would certainly raise idea's like this, its a
fairly decent one (plus it allows for more counterplay
from people on the otherside), obviously i couldn't
guarantee that it is adopted due to how csm works,
but i would certainly push more more mechanics that
spice stuff up. the only thing i would say is that i
wouldn't want to neuter the gameplay behind
ganking.
hello and thanks for the reply.i agree that positive
faction standings should have a more meaningful
impact on game play, especially since eve online is
based on having a balance in 'risk vs reward' and
'actions vs consequences'. that's what makes this
game great. in the past characters were accountable
for their actions, now most everything is being
dumbed down and turned into easy mode for the
instant gratification crowd. that's something i don't
want to see happen to faction standings. currently the
in-game aspects of faction standings :positive faction
standings are the only way to access cosmos agents
(one time access).positive faction and corporation
standings are needed to access research agents.all
other agents only require minimal amount of faction
standing for access (-2.00 or higher standing).high
faction standings reduce market broker fees and
reprocessing fees in npc stations.at -5.00 or lower
faction standing, empire npc's will attack when in
their space.in my opinion ccp made a big mistake
when they removed the need to have positive faction
standings to anchor pos in high sec space. having
that requirement made faction standings mean
something more instead of just a way to access
agents or to get lower broker fees. now i would love
to see more content pertaining to positive faction
standings be added to the game. however at this
time my inquiry is based on the negative effects of
faction standings to the playerbase. since it takes
time for players to ruin their faction standings then it
should also take some time to repair those standings.
unfortunately that info is basically nonexistent in-
game when it should actually be readily available and
easily understood by players.i created and shared the
'faction standing repair plan' with the playerbase on
the forums back in 2010. over the past 7 years it has
helped countless amount of players to rectify what
seemed like an unsolvable issue. in my opinion
players need more options available to repair
negative faction standings then what i've listed in that
guide. in fact most of those event agents can only be
accessed once in the characters life. there's a lot of
players in-game who don't read the forums and don't
know that guide exists. they've basically accepted the
fact they're cut off from engaging in available content
due to negative faction standings. repairing negative
standings is a big task even for experienced players
who are familiar with 'the plan'. new players who
haven't learned the game yet can easily mess up
their faction standings without even knowing it right
from the start, resulting in no access to half of empire
space.anyway, i think all players should have the
option in-game to gain diplomatic immunity with the
empire factions. the fact that the info pertaining to
faction standing repair is hidden from players in-
game is the reason for my post. after 7 years of
helping players in the forums to repair negative
faction standings, i just wanted to provide some
feedback through the csm for ccp to consider.i
believe these options would definitely help all players
in-game.faction standing repair process be
implemented in-game and be very intuitive, not
obscure (tutorial perhaps).changes to faction
standings will notify players with on screen pop up
message (option to deactivate).actions that would
cause negative faction standing trigger on screen
pop up warning (option to deactivate).all anti-empire
mission briefings have a warning informing players
those missions will incur negative faction
standings.implement tags for empire standings in-
game based on similar game mechanics as tags for
security.add npc agents to in-game agent finder for
faction standing repair (similar to proposal in my
forum signature).once again good luck with the
upcoming election.dmc
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
thanks for the reply.basically overall, doesn't matter if
it's fw or missions, faction standings affect everyone
in eve one way or another. i just wanted to know your
stance on faction standings.personally i think faction
standings should have a more meaningful impact on
game play, especially since eve online is based on
having a balance in 'risk vs reward' and 'actions vs
consequences'. that's what makes this game great. in
the past characters were accountable for their
actions, now most everything is being dumbed down
and turned into easy mode for the instant gratification
crowd. that's something i don't want to see happen to
faction standings. currently the in-game aspects of
faction standings :positive faction standings are the
only way to access cosmos agents (one time
access).positive faction and corporation standings
are needed to access research agents.all other
agents only require minimal amount of faction
standing for access (-2.00 or higher standing).high
faction standings reduce market broker fees and
reprocessing fees in npc stations.at -5.00 or lower
faction standing, empire npc's will attack when in
their space.in my opinion ccp made a big mistake
when they removed the need to have positive faction
standings to anchor pos in high sec space. having
that requirement made faction standings mean
something more instead of just a way to access
agents or to get lower broker fees. now i would love
to see more content pertaining to positive faction
standings be added to the game. however at this
time my inquiry is based on the negative effects of
faction standings to the playerbase. since it takes
time for players to ruin their faction standings then it
should also take some time to repair those standings.
unfortunately that info is basically nonexistent in-
game when it should actually be readily available and
easily understood by players.i created and shared the
'faction standing repair plan' with the playerbase on
the forums back in 2010. over the past 7 years it has
helped countless amount of players to rectify what
seemed like an unsolvable issue. in my opinion
players need more options available to repair
negative faction standings then what i've listed in that
guide. in fact most of those event agents can only be
accessed once in the characters life. there's a lot of
players in-game who don't read the forums and don't
know that guide exists. they've basically accepted the
fact they're cut off from engaging in available content
due to negative faction standings. repairing negative
standings is a big task even for experienced players
who are familiar with 'the plan'. new players who
haven't learned the game yet can easily mess up
their faction standings without even knowing it right
from the start, resulting in no access to half of empire
space.anyway, i think all players should have the
option in-game to gain diplomatic immunity with the
empire factions. the fact that the info pertaining to
faction standing repair is hidden from players in-
game is the reason for my post. after 7 years of
helping players in the forums to repair negative
faction standings, i just wanted to provide some
feedback through the csm for ccp to consider.i
believe these options would definitely help all players
in-game.faction standing repair process be
implemented in-game and be very intuitive, not
obscure (tutorial perhaps).changes to faction
standings will notify players with on screen pop up
message (option to deactivate).actions that would
cause negative faction standing trigger on screen
pop up warning (option to deactivate).all anti-empire
mission briefings have a warning informing players
those missions will incur negative faction
standings.implement tags for empire standings in-
game based on similar game mechanics as tags for
security.add npc agents to in-game agent finder for
faction standing repair (similar to proposal in my
forum signature).once again good luck with the
upcoming election.dmc
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
i have collaborated with this guy several years and i
must say there is no better candinate for same
idealogy what he has.he has ideas what is possible
to chance in this game and he has right
perspective.and all of that he like's good wiskey, if
nothing else there is good reason to vote this guy ;)
this is actually really interesting topic. and as usual,
there is really strong opinions towards both
directions. as basis, i think no place in eve should be
truly safe (docked in station is acceptable). there
should always be chance that you are killed in a pod
next to jita to some random guy.that said, i think the
experience in high sec could be enhanced a lot.
looking it from outlaws point of view, i think you
should have thrill to work as an outlaw. you would be
denied from stations, but you could use outlaw
citadels (like pirate npcs have in missions) to trade
and do your operations. i would like to find better
ways and reasons to smuggle some outlawed goods
(maybe using wormholes or pirate gates). and all stuff
like that.on the other side i think there should be
interesting and working ways to protect your self from
a gank or pirate ships. were that concord, faction
police or other players. for example one thing that
was strange to me is that ship can bump you as long
as it likes and there is no way to mark him as criminal
(and manual marking wouldn't work) so your friends
could kill or just web him.i presume the point of
thomas idea is that you can't loot the wreck with one
ship and then move it to another ship so it's safe from
suspect timers? for that purpose i think that idea
could work and be implementable via assembled item
attributes. one would get rid of the suspect flag from
the items once they are repackaged in station.so, for
sure i could bring it up when talking about hi sec
and/or ganking. of course keeping in mind how much
csm can affect this. at least, this is area that requires
more talking about and i think there is a lot we could
do to make hi sec more interesting for both
sides.edit:i also think there is good chance to
introduce some changes to hi sec in near future. as
far as i know ccp affinity (at least) is interested of
making faction standings to mean more (in good and
bad) and thus i think there is other aspects that need
to be looked too. using factions to help you (like in
mining operations) is one interesting idea that could
help to balance things out.
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
greetings spacers,i<U+FFFD>m officially running for
csm and wanted to start a thread so that people can
ask question of me. i<U+FFFD>ve been playing eve
for almost 4 years now. during that time,
i<U+FFFD>ve played in hi-sec, null-sec, low-sec and
wormhole space. my two main twos are alive in very
different space. one is a solid worm hole character
living in a c5. the other is a low-sec character i use
for industry, mining and occasional pvp fun. some of
the key things i hope to help ccp with is:industry
rework <U+FFFD> ccp recently done a lot of stuff to
help this but i think there still gaps. corporate
interface <U+FFFD> this could use some attention.
the current title / role system is complex and needs
clean up.alpha accounts <U+FFFD> ccp needs to be
able to give better information during creation or
allow some of cross group skills since new players
don<U+FFFD>t know enough to select their choice.
please feel free to ask me questions.
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.

ccpgames dropped the ball on this one years ago,
with their own build carbon engine.as paying
customers we sadly have to look elsewhere for a
proper ambulation (wis) good try though, wish you
are on the ballot, but for whatever reason the
companyhas not put you on the voting list, a sign of
things to come.regards, a freelancer
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
if i vote for you will you give me some iskies for my
toonie so i can buy a dessie? contributer to eve is
easy:<U+FFFD>
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.
07 candidate!first, thank you for your time and effort
(both present and future) in representing the
capsuleers of new eden! they<U+FFFD>re much
appreciated.i<U+FFFD>m preparing to cast my vote
in the csm12 elections. after reading the information
you submitted, though, i still have a question.by way
of background, i started in eve as a hauler, moving
freight in t1 industrials and gradually working my way
up in both ships and cargo. however, i repeatedly
found my progress impeded by gankers who would
destroy my ship and steal my cargo. in low- and null-
sec space, that<U+FFFD>s to be expected. you
place your bet and take your chances. in high-sec
space, however, this is very frustrating. why have
high-sec space at all then? this frustration drove me
into anti-ganking, and i<U+FFFD>ve been a proud
member of thomas en chasteaux's high-sec militia for
several months now.so, my question. where do you
stand on high-sec ganking? i<U+FFFD>ll concede
that ganking is a legitimate style of game play, as ccp
has ruled. but i also feel that it should be difficult and
dangerous (for the ganker) in the 30% of new eden
designated as high-sec space. in particular,
i<U+FFFD>d like to see ccp tweak the game
mechanics so that the criminal flag generated by
looting a ganked freighter in high-sec space follows
all players who handle that loot, and otherwise make
looting more realistic. (thomas en chasteaux's ideas,
not mine.)as a member of the csm, would you
present such an idea to ccp? would you push for its
adoption? what other game changes might you
consider to make high-sec ganking more difficult and
less profitable?regards,cochise chiricahua.

open for questions / press events throughout the
voting period and after
hello commander azei read your ama and agree that
pi needs an overhaul so you have my vote. as
someone who identifies as a high sec candidate,
what are your thoughts on keeping time-poor and
casual players operating in high-sec engaged and
retained ?
i agree with much of what dmc has to say, and your
suggestion of tags for faction repair has value to
corrrect seriously negative faction
standings.however, standings, are still important to
pve play over and above just not getting shot by the
navies.in addition to tags for standings repair, can
you push for agents where you can run missions or
do tasks to gain positive faction standings without
negative standings for the other factions. other than
l4 epic arcs.these may require more effort or lower
rewards to be balanced, but it would save situations
(ie thukker) where it is near impossible to ever pull
back from an early mistake as they have a negative
relationship to just about everyone.thanks, ps you
have my vote.
make eve great again - you got my vote!
so i'm part the pve revamp they are working on is a
huge part of this. additionally creating new and more
interesting missions and content that scales for more
people could be alot of fun
so there is a huge opportunity here for selecting
mission types that a person is willing to accept. i think
making filters on pve content (optional ones) like
turning away burner missions and missions that don't
effect faction standings or positively effect faction
standings. or even that you only want to go against
certain factions would be beneficial. for instance
there are 2 missions i will literally quit for the day if i
get. buzzkill and the assault. both missions suck for
different reasons. but would be nice to filter out. also i
want more incursions of different types. this will
create new fun ways to make isk while creating a
challenge for new and old players with hopefully
some ship losses. as always i'm willing to hear out
any ideas or refine these
for more infos or questions, there is also twitter:
for the first few months of playing eve online, all i did
was mine. i rarely communicated, didn't try to learn
new aspects of the game or explore possibilities for
the future, and eventually, code. came along and
blew up my new mackinaw. for a lot of players this is
breaking point, but for me it was a turning point. i still
credit that gank as the single most important turning
point for my eve experience as it broke me from the
grinding of mining to actually go out and see what the
greater game had to offer.now i use ganking as my
main source of income, and generally target haulers
and small ships carrying way too much loot near the
trade hubs to keep my fun going. it's a playstyle that i
love even though i know so many hate it.personally
i've always disliked that trick of looting using fleet
hangars, though i expect making that change
wouldn't be addressed by ccp unless there were a
larger overarching rework being done to crimewatch
as it's kind of a small issue that's part of a niche
gameplay, and would require a look both at
crimewatch and looting mechanics. i'm pretty sure
that the current csm has already made ccp aware of
this issue after the ganking roundtables last fall.i will
direct you to the idea i shared with dracvlad when he
asked me a couple of weeks ago:again, this was just
a rough idea i tossed out to give you an idea of where
i'm coming from. i would like to see more
opportunities for interaction with gankers without
significantly breaking our playstyle. keep in mind
though, the csm has no direct power to make any
kind of changes. if you have any suggestions or
thoughts i would be happy to hear them. also if i
could be unbanned from anti-ganking so i could come
talk in there about stuff like this i would appreciate
that as well... thanks for the question,toxic

i have been doing wardecs on and off for a few years,
and i agree that some changes needs to be made,
and so far i apreciate quite a few of your suggestions,
including other on topics.you got my ballot.
appreciate the support. if you ever feel like chatting
about wars hit me up or check out the wardec project
discord in my signature.
cochise thank you for posting this. to answer your
question, i agree with the change you proposed
however i would not be presenting this to ccp. here's
why and how i could help a more highsec equipped
candidate present it.1. my platform is laser focused
on low sec, pvp and faction warfare. so i need to
ensure i am not distracted by all the other game
mechanics that need to be tweaked. for us in low sec
/ faction warfare we have a real opportunity to be
heard and i need to ensure all the factions have that
voice with me. it's all about integrity.2. however i am
equipped to help one of the other csm candidates that
are focused on high sec. this is done by partnering
with my csm colleagues and helping them advance
their agenda at the ccp table. by being a voice of
reason and supporting their argument as a valid
change that would help high sec which we all know is
the gateway for low and null. it would behoove me to
support that.i hope that sheds light on how i can be of
value and remain integral to the goals i am running
for.o7!scylus former executor templis calsf alliance
i saw this first and didn't read the rest.
make wormholes great again
voted with 8 chars
i'm thinking of sending votes your way because i think
you have good grasp on the role of the csm.would be
interested in seeing a reply to the email from cochise
above before i do so.also, coming from melbourne
myself i need some assurance you are not an
essendon afl supporter.
over the term of csm xi we managed to conduct a
ganking round table with both the ganking and anti-
ganking communities. we managed to get a lot of
useful input that we took to ccp at the first summit.
this included the kind of changes mentioned by
cochise and many others (on both sides of the
fence).i'm not one to pander to the masses to gain
votes, so i'm just going to tell it how it is. the question
cochise posed is a bit of a loaded one. the csm can
make proposals, float ideas and discuss topics with
ccp. what we don't do is "push for a changes
adoption" or make changes. if the question is "do you
listen" the answer is obviously "yes". i can't promise
changes will come within csm xii's term, and i can't
say they won't. that's up to ccp devs, not the csm.i
barrack for hawthorn, for the record.
personally, ganking is too cheap, too easy. being
able to kill billion isk ships with 300m worth of throw
away ships with no significant drawbacks is a bit too
overpowered. it has made it less safe to be in
highsec than nullsec with haulers :(i am unsure how
to counter this other than maybe hiring an npc escort
party to try and protect you from hostiles, but this
wont stop the kill.

i agree its worthwhile to discuss these issues and sort
it out. i have not heard anyone say it is a problem to
have more neutrals than fw guys pvping in fw space.
but let's say that it is the problem for whatever
reason. the way to fix it would be to make the pvpers
want to join fw. why don't they join? rabbit plexing is
ridiculous but if you don't do it you will lose your
system and be locked out. (so any measures that
reduce rabbit plexing would probably help) also you
have more targets when you can shoot both militias.
making fw 1v1v1v1 would help with this quite a bit.
but also if being in the militia meant that you had
access to a real time intel tool that let you know what
plexes were attacked, those who like to pvp in fw
plexes would have a big reason to join fw instead of
staying neutral. (more on that below)ok so there are 2
questions. 1) do most players go to null sec or fw or
low sec neutral to start pvp? 2) where should ccp
direct them if they are going to direct them?do you
think allot of the people in karmafleet used to be in
faction war? i would think more people go to null sec
and probably should go to null sec first. it<U+FFFD>s
true that plexes help you wittle down engagements.
but that is still not as easy as being in the blob. being
in large null sec blobs seems the easiest pvp to have.
also the gate camping with bubbles and no gate guns
seems pretty easy as well. but again i think it
depends on the person. i think they are both options
but i really don't think either should be shaped based
on how new players will like them. i think they should
both offer very different types of play so eve can
things that appeal to a wide range of people. ok first
as far as spam. i think one approach would be to
have it work through a map interface. that way there
would be no spam. so for example it could give a
blue number of the number of friendlies running
plexes in a system and a red number for the number
of enemies running plexes in a system. (it would be
great if you could easily set desto from this tool.)
some other possibilities would be to have a tool that
shows intel based on the number of jumps from your
current position. it could give more in depth intel such
as the type of plex being run (novice small medium or
large). again no spam. now you say it might be too
strong. i agree it would be a strong tool. that is why i
think allot of people who like to pvp in plexes would
want to join a militia in order to get it! this will mean
that more pvpers are suddenly showing up at these
plexes and getting more and more pvp. i think this
combined with a rollback <U+FFFD> maybe even a
relatively weak one like you propose would turn fw
into a bloodbath. which would be awesome. so what
problem are we trying to solve? the problem is that fw
sov is most efficiently won by running away. the api
information i gave is the proof of that. no one is going
to care about a sov system when sov is won by
running away. so people by and large
don<U+FFFD>t care about fw sov. with intel the
rabbits can still run but they cant hide. and the
rollbacks will make rabbit plexing even less efficient.
this will almost certainly put rabbit plexing out of
business. now you say people can<U+FFFD>t
capture a system quickly. that<U+FFFD>s true. but
whether fast or slow plexing is only fun when there is
pvp <U+FFFD> otherwise it is just a grind. so yes i
will see my system has been plexed after i went to
sleep and now i can sit in a defensive plex and get it
back. but if no one shows up to fight that is horribly
boring and a reason why people leave fw. what
needs to happen is ccp needs to provide mechanics
where more plexes are fought over. then winning a
plex becomes an accomplishment and not a grind.
letting pilots know where plexes are being taken so
they can fight over them is an obvious step to making
that happen. as far as ccp wanting people to do more
scouting, i can only say it is not happening with fw. fw
players are not going to start scouting when so many
are just rabbits. people stopped caring about it.
it<U+FFFD>s sort of a chicken and egg issue. its
been years and players don<U+FFFD>t scout for this
stuff. ccp needs to provide the players the tools to
ignite the spark again. they shouldn<U+FFFD>t think
players are suddenly going to start caring about this
broken sov system enough to scout out where the
plexes are. the system needs better intel tools and
rollbacks. ccp and the players understood this before
and ccp promised both. but then ccp went silent and
never delivered. and no one from csm ever seemed
to bring it up either which is why i am honestly less
than impressed with the csm.
thanks for the reply. i think suicide ganking is a part of
the game, and one of the things that makes eve the
game it is. the feeling that you can be attacked at
anytime even in highsec adds to the atmosphere. i do
not feel like suicide ganking is an issue right now,
and i'm happy with the balance at the moment. we've
seen significant ehp buffs to both freighters with the
damage control tiericide and orcas have been
boosted recently, you can very easily get 700k ehp
on an orca and move things with it's corp hanger. on
top of rebalanced dsts. i've almost always done solo
logistics for myself, as i tend to play solo and i've
never been ganked, even moving 4-5b isk at the time.
you need to manage your risk, and use the proper
tool for the job.making someone looting a wreck that
died through a criminal action get concorded with a
criminal flag doesn't seem like a good idea to me. it'll
just end up with new players getting concorded and
will kill suicide ganking completely, as only the owner
would be able to loot the wreck.if you want to vote for
someone who wants to argue with ccp to nerf suicide
ganking then i'm the wrong candidate. contributer to
eve is easy:<U+FFFD>
just voted for you nice interview:
personally, i think it's still too early to really say. we
don't really have too many details to go off of to
speculate on how it will impact the market yet. i'd like
to see more information on the drilling platforms
before i guess/speculate.
i've been a victim of high-sec ganking myself, where
one you can see here. the more recent one have
happened on my neutral hauler (which i can't link ),
but with that said, i do think thank ganking, as you
said too, is a valid style of gameplay. as a hauler you
have to take your own precautions; like only carrying
so much value (ie: don't stuff your freighter to the
brim of shiney goods), and make more than one trip if
necessary, and even go as far as having a buddy
with you to web you on gates so get yourself off the
gate and in warp faster. jf's also have their own
defense as well with being able to bail if you sense
danger. we have the tools and knowledge we need to
protect ourselves. the idea of flagging loot that was a
part of a gank is an interesting idea, but i'm not sure
how that will work overall and it doesn't seem ideal. i
tried to search for the ideas that you mentioned by
thomas on the site you linked, but i didn't see
anything, perhaps you can link it?i think it's hard to
find the right balance of risk vs. reward - though in
regards to ganking what i would like ccp to look into is
the bumping mechanic again as it's still very possible
to keep a freighter bumped nonstop.
thank you very much! i really appreciate it!
interesting ideas for adding something unique about
npc null. lowsec got a nice buff with the introduction
of clone soldiers "tags for sec," and the mordus
legion commanders. npc null needs some unique
flavor.
hi vic,i've got an interesting question for you and i'm
curious how you respond.we both know each other
from around the forums and while we've certainly
disagreed on various points i have a lot of respect for
you as someone who knows how to present a decent
argument and knows the game quite well and i could
see you getting a spot on my ballot.so, that said,
what would you do if you got onto the csm and came
to them with a concern or a change you'd like to see
(any concern but i don't think you'll be surprised if i
use incursions as my example here) and they go "we
understand your concern, but we think that's actually
fine and healthy and here's the data we have to back
that up." for incursions that might be the actual rate of
ship loss compared to other gameplay, the actual
rate of income, anything like that. what would your
response be to being presented with contradictory
evidence to your own gameplay experiences?
corollary: what would your response be to being
presented with a similar counter by ccp but without
the hard evidence, just a vague assertion that they're
monitoring things and don't have a cause for concern
at this time?regards,-cade
hi cade.so it's great you mention data. i love data!
data has to be one of my favorite things! one thing i
have learned over the course of my professional
career is that it opposing the data itself is often futile
and just results in butting heads, but how it is
analyzed or interpreted makes all the difference, and
discussing that can lead to rather productive
dialogue. data collected in-silico is generally very
reliable and repeatable, so there's basically no
contesting it - i think ccp is going to the sole source of
reliable data pertaining to new eden. the monthly
economic reports are a good presentation of data, but
they do not actually include much analysis on the
data. basically, if they showed me data on something
and i disagreed with their interpretation or analysis, i
would ask for the data itself and, if possible, conduct
and independent analysis of it, but as stated the data
itself is not contestable. yes we can all draw our own
conclusions and make our own stories based on
charts they release, but how statistically valid are
they? how are they modeling things? i am also very
used to my hypotheses being proven very wrong by
evidence, where it is all too easy to fall into a mode of
thinking when there is no actual data to guide the
construction of models. things invariably look different
from outside the system looking in, as opposed to the
other way around.not everything is a question of data
or math. many of the bigger problems in the game
are philosophical in nature and excessive data and
math may only serves as distracting anecdotes.
however, i believe my professional training is an
asset, i am quite able to take even deep criticism of
ideas. on the corollary, they are in charge. i would
only exist as a sounding board. it is my duty to be a
voice for players, it's up to ccp to hear/listen.
i do not agree with everything you say, but you are
the best proven candidate, voted no.1, best of luck
you've got all my votes anyway because i appreciate
what you do and the fact you do do it!a question
though if i may. i used to be in es and whizz and ran
the operations in fountain for our booster trade. we
had a great roleplay component to the corp with the
illegality of boosters that added something to the
game (at least in my opinion) forging social
connection throughout new eden. what are your
thoughts about ccp introducing similar mechanics eg
smuggling.story rich pathways being removed from
the game.i get why boosters were made legal but in
my opinion, firstly, it would have been good if ccp had
reached out to es and whizz and the other booster
producing corps to at least ask for alternatives,
opinions and ideas and secondly that drug smuggling
is something intrinsic to the genre as an option going
back all the way to old elite and it's a kind of a shame
such mechanics aren't available. it adds another
pathway to the trading career both in terms of risk,
potential success and also binding the community
together. in many ways they've removed one of the
most social parts of trading out which seems kind of
counter-intuitive for a mmo and reduced a well-
respected, even if not totally legit, alliance into just
another corporate trading entity. and before someone
states the obvious i can see the parallels here with
the real world operations and the irony of that.
hey cochise,an interesting topic. pretty hard to strike
a balance here. i personally don't like high-sec
ganking, but i accept it as part of the experience and
as a play style that some people seem to enjoy. it
also underlines that the capsuleer life is never
perfectly save, even in high-sec. i generally like the
mechanics of concord, but would indeed happily look
into the details and support possible adaptions to
criminal flagging and similar, provided the result is
not too prohibitive for gankers. an alternate looting
mechanic sounds interesting, did thomas write an
article about the topic that i could check out?
just to clarify where i'm coming from on this, i actually
flew for red frog very early on in my eve career and
i've made money for most of it through jfing. i've also
lost a jf to suicide ganking, and come very close a
couple more times.as you say, suicide ganking is a
pretty valid playstyle. a lot of people have fun doing it,
and it's hard to say they aren't putting in the effort to
get that reward.what i would say is wrong however is
the bumping mechanic. a bumping machariel
properly piloted is as good if not better than a warp
disruptor (since you can't just reapproach the gate).
i'd like to see ccp finally implement the always-warp-
after-3-minutes change they talked about doing a
while ago. if they did that, i really wouldn't have a
problem at all with ganking.
hi capri,i have a somewhat more meta question for
you that i haven't found answered yet so far. forgive
me if this has been answered somewhere, i honestly
didn't look *that* hard.what's your general approach
to a disagreement? either with ccp, with a player
offering you feedback to pass along or just their own
experiences, or with a fellow csm?you say you
believe the csm should be a sounding board for ccp,
and i agree, but what's your approach if you and
another csm are giving contradictory information or
testimony?regards,-cade
sure, i would present it to ccp, thats my job as a csm
member right?would i push for its adoption? i dont
think a change in looting mechanics is a good thing
so no, i wouldnt push for that part.i do see however
that the risk vs reward in ganking is pretty one sided.
in response to cochise chiricahua:suicide ganking is
definitely a valid style of play and one that i will
always support in this game. it is an important part of
the game that makes it feel dangerous and forces
players to think about their decisions, especially
when hauling extremely valuable cargo.historically,
ccp has made suicide ganking increasingly difficult,
especially with changes to freighter ehp. i believe the
mechanics around performing a suicide gank and
acquiring the loot from the gank are currently sound.
as a multiboxer, i also support this style of play (and
you'll soon have another crazy multiboxer to deal
with :p, unless i am elected of course- cause :rip: my
time). the only thing i would advocate change for is
the ability to perma tackle a target through bumping.
bumping is a legitimate mechanic, i feel, to prevent
targets from escaping through a gate. but as a
mechanic to prevent a warp out, for an excessive
period of time, i feel is unfair. suicide ganks should be
coordinated when the opportunity arises, not at the
complete leisure of the gank team. i would like ccp to
implement the three minute warp out mechanic they
had previously proposed to force extra effort to keep
a target 'permanently tackled.' however, i would
balance this against the freighter ehp buffs that
recently occurred (reverse them). i would like to see
more man-mode suicide ganks on the gates but i
don't feel it should take the increased number of
gankers/dps that the ehp buffs gave.
as far as ganking, i agree that it is a legitimate
gameplay style and should remain. mechanically, it's
simple enough to accommodate. however, it should
be a commitment to continue with style of play. this
alone should curb too much hisec ganking.
unfortunately, the mechanic for repairing sec status
would have to change in order to make this happen. i
would recommend a timer that limits how often you
can use tags to repair your sec status. barring prolific
hisec gankers, all other players should remain
unaffected for the most part.concerning your
recommendation to extend criminal flagging to
looters, we need to find the limit in which to do this.
am i correct in thinking that you want those who
handle the loot post initial gank and loot pick up
should be flagged as criminal as well? i'm not sure
how effective this will be since it could be easy
enough to exchange loot in station and simply wait
out the timer.much like how i view war dec
mechanics, those who are successful in this business
are those who know the nuance of the mechanic. it
feels that we are constantly playing catch up when it
comes to visibility and spreading knowledge on
these. i do hope that this is addressed more
comprehensively in the npe so that new players
coming in are aware, prepared, and less likely to be
frustrated when it is applied to them.thank you for
your question and thank you for being on the other
side of the spectrum of the gankers and war dec
aggressors like myself. we appreciate the balance
that you bring.
hello,thank you for considering me as your
candidate. not only for someone living in highsec,
that is a relevant question, but also for people living
in nullsec and moving their stuff to jita in a freighter.
there should be a counter for every game mechanic.
lets through the steps of a gank, these should be as
follows: ship and cargo scanners are "a reward"
without "a risk", this could be addressed by making
the user of said modules suspect (flashy yellow)
bumping, not only a problem with highsec freighters.
this could be addressed by repeatedly bumping the
same ship again and again having consequences. or
other changes to bumping mechanics. ganking - the
process of ganking itself is pretty much already
balanced. gankers receive no insurance looting (it is
currently possible to move the dropped items from
the jetcan belonging to the freighter pilot to another
can, which is then picked up without consequences,
this should be addressed, but becoming suspect
should be enough to allow intervention by other
players) while not everything can be addressed (like
rolling scan/gank characters) it would be possible to
balance ganking a bit towards more risk without
making it too bad. giving a suspect flag to pilots who
are scanning freighters, bumping them or looting,
allows for more tools in the hands of anti-ganking,
which would make ganking and anti-ganking a lot
more interesting.
last nights eve prosper is out with positive mention of
the campaign
good luck toxic,all my eligible chars votes are in and
on you
appreciate it man.
give fw some love!+1
hi vicyou wrote and in gd
hi jojo,i don't think those are as contradictory as they
seem. the mechanics are sound, they haven't really
touched those in quite some time. the actual numbers
on the ships involved have changed. i do think the t1
industrials were over-buffed to the point where fitting
is no longer a compromise as it should be - you can
get a tank and haul quite a lot. i think if people had to
learn to fit ships properly at the sub-cap level, then
they would make better choices with freighters, and
lots of the noise about how unfair ganks are would
not exist - they would potentially be more likely to
have learned to use the existing tools and mechanics
to keep themselves safe long before they become a
freighter-owner. smoother inclines allow for easier
learning.
demichael crimson i thank you for your reply and will
try it.......... cheers !!!!!!
hi well tried the link and it still saying i am not able to
vote. still know idea why it won`t can any one else
please shed light why many players can`t vote even
though they have omega accounts
???????????????????????????
you say you have an interest in mining and that it
needs improvement.however, what i've read of your
ideas in the past focus on a solo miner, not a multi-
boxer.most of us who mine multi-box. please bear
that in mind. what might seem engaging to a solo pilot
could be tedious for someone running a crew.before
offering elaborate changes to mining, make sure you
are in touch with the multi-boxing community.
whenever i've been talking about changes to mining,
i've _always_ said i'd like to have the current way
stay as well. at least, when it comes to the act of
mining. you may be able to get an improved rate by
paying attention, but not as a total replacement.i'd
like to see more gameplay around _finding_ things to
mine. the only difference with multiboxing then, is that
you may need to do that activity more often. (no, i'm
not meaning, 'you find one roid, mine it, then have to
find another'. clusters which would support someone
for a while)
the removal of smuggling gameplay was a double
edged sword.it did make things _far_ easier for the
consumers. the manufacturers have the problem that
it's now easier to sell, so more people may get into it.
tbh, i'm still in two minds about the change. i know it
sounds like a cop out, but that's the truth.
thanks for the reply and good luck with the campaign.
hello cochise thanks for you question, if i understand
correctly you proposal is something like change the
currently criminal tag system specially when people
get ganked. well the gankers are part of eve as the
criminals on the real life, i think is a game style like
pvp, pve, mining, hauling. and hell yeahhhh, is so
frustrating be ganked but it make the game great.
why? because we can get the oportunity to kill them.
how? preparing fleets when they are about to ganking
(by corp or friends).i remember when i get safe by an
antiganking fleet ( goshh i hate niarja). so gankers
make eve more real.in the real life when you kill
someone you become a criminal and if you do
something with the body you became in a suspicius
but not a criminal. so bring that to eve.
afropty!!!!! (1) you have my vote good sir.(2) **** your
solo osprey fit.(3) do you think people have a reason
to empire build? or do people live and attempt to hold
null space simply for content? i feel like the
"narrative" of eve has been lost for the everyday
player. i know there is a higher meta that exists.
however, it seems like for the "everyday" line
member/f1 monkey there is no reason or narrative to
hold or fight for space anymore. what are your
feelings on the matter?
hello, thanks for your question.(1) thank you(2) at
least i don't need a cap chain lol(3) when someone
starts to playing eve, everyone recommends to this
new players "do not go to low sec systems" or "stay
in green systems" or just simple "stay in high sec".
probably that make an idea for all new players about,
in which place they can stay safely.on the other
hand, we got older players with alter
corporations/characters building in high sec/low sec
and probably they get an extra fee avoiding any war
or for another objective.i use to play in high sec,
when i getting into null sec, this was a new
experience and now i don't know how to live in high
sec (i know the mechanics just is not for me), in the
null sec you are involved with a large group of players
and they respect you when for example you are
doing a site or mining and is not the same in high
sec. (in friendly space of course).if you don't wanna
be a line member/f1 monkey just split your guns and
use f1 / f2 / f3 / f4.... /f8 come on....<U+FFFD>
<U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD>
<U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD>
i'm a big fan of the dialectic. in short, i really enjoy
arguing and debating because i'm quite good at not
becoming emotionally invested in any particular
position. basically i believe that there is always a right
answer and if you disagree with someone, the best
way for both of you to get there is by comparing notes
on how you ended up at your different positions.
usually someone will be "more right" than the other,
but even if someone is completely wrong, hearing
them out and finding out why they think that allows
you to incorporate a sensitivity towards that position
into your own. it's possible to believe the wrong thing
for the right reasons.if it came to a point where myself
and another csm disagreed on something, or even a
ccp employee, i'd be quite happy laying out in detail
why i think what i think and letting it stand on its
own.at the end of the day, there's no reason to fall out
with someone just because you disagree on a few
issues.
love this answer, i think you just earned yourself a
spot on my ballot
thanks for the questions guys. election time is upon
us so remember to go at and vote, even if you are not
planning to vote for me just remember to vote and
participate.i've actually found running this year to be
more fun than i expected, i was thinking it was going
to be really slow moving and not get much interest,
but the questions have poured in and kept me going,
followed by all the interviews and debates that i
participated in which were quite fun as it also helped
me select my candidates to fill the rest of my
ballots.thank you for being an amazing community
and fly safe everyone. may the best man win.

i just happened to be online when i got a notification
about the elections:greetings citizen of new
eden,voting for the council of stellar management,
the democratically elected eve player council, is now
open to all omega accounts. if you are eligible to
vote, please head to the csm page where you can
study the candidates and cast your vote for up to 10
candidates of your choice.make csm 12 your
csm.video tutorial on how to votehappy voting!this
makes me so happy!
hello! i'd like to ask your opinion concerning recent
changes, particularly alpha clones stuff and aura's
voice.
thanks for stopping by my thread and taking time to
post.aura's voice: well apart from those times i need
it, i play eve with sound off... listening to my own
music or something. i must admit, the change in
voice takes some getting used to.alpha clones:
having the potential to have more people experience
eve and join is not a bad thing... and being able to log
in to the game to catch up with friends without having
to subscribe for a month seems also to have postive
sides. i tried out an alpha clone... trying to think if i
have any use for alpha alts... but at the moment they
are not for me.any other recent changes you would
like my opinion on? my eve experience is getting
laggier with every update - or so it seems. i need to
update my computer.
just for the record, it wasn't intended as a loaded
question. i understand that csm doesn't decide on or
implement game changes, that they're basically a
player advocacy board for the ccp.thanks for the
reply!
still taking interview requests from corps/alliances
interested in speaking to me. i've done quite the few
and it's been a fun experience so far!
there is another fw csm candidate campaigning that
the station lockouts don't matter anymore because of
citadels, so i'm surprised how split people are on this
subject. i'll concede that players who run plexes in
ships like 5x wcs punishers or unfit atrons with t1
guns are a bad thing and i'd like that changed or
disincentived, but that's why i like the idea of
accelerated progress for rolling back a timer for the
opposite faction, or timer rollbacks. again, i'm not
opposed to real time intel if ccp can implement it in a
ui friendly way like you mentioned, it's all about how
much ccp is willing to invest in fw, i know gorski car
campaigned hard for years but ultimately it was never
on their roadmap, so having compromises that are
easier to implement are also a good thing to have. i
think it depends on what the person wants to do. i
think if you're a solo pilot or maybe have a small
group of inexperienced friends, fw is where those
players look. not everyone is willing to leave their
corporation, there are several guys in highsec
involved with industry, mission or incursion groups
for example, that like to try pvp every now and then
and fw is the best fit for them, since it's logistically
easy in empire space, is nearby, requires no
standings/diplomacy to other groups; fw relies on far
fewer macro skills and outside influences that
solo/small gang pvp in nullsec requires. some people
like to get away from the politics of nullsec and fw
brings that to them. fw is seen a bit more as 'casual
fun' requiring less effort. now if you want to just get
content in gangs, sure karmafleet/pandemic
horde/brave is probably better. it also provides you
with far better finance opportunities than empire
space. i don't know where ccp should direct players.
ultimately either of those options is going to be a
better fit depending on the players. i think removing
the wcs farmers from fw so you're more likely to get
an actual fight will be good, and better ui (live intel
like you mention, or some kind of system where it
encourages players to go somewhere for content) will
also be better for fw content.contributer to eve is
easy:<U+FFFD>
not that i'm aware of, that was taken from an e-
mail.thanks for the reply!
wanted to vote for you, but you're not on the list!
csm candidate rhiload, what is your stance on future
of infantry operations in the world of eve online?
should such thing exist in the future and should it
have any impact on the game?
well, that's definitely surprising. you logged into your
account, right ?might see if your computer has option
for disk cleanup but i doubt it would cause that.
there's also option to clear all cache files in eve's esc
menu - 'reset settings' tab - but again i doubt that
would be the problem as well.the only other option i
can see is submit a support ticket and politely explain
the issue. wish i could be more helpful.dmc
yep login and still saying you are not able to vote
no your help was much appreciated, ill try the a
submit, see if they shed light on the idea, thanks
again.
porfin un chileno a intenta hacer algo bueno 10/10
vote lillik e for csmxii! women for w-space!
hi. i am not sure that i am posting this in the right
forum. i recently made an alpha account to check it
out, and to check out the new player experience.and i
have to say that the npc corp is, in lack of a better
words, utter cancer. endless political debate. and any
question was met with apathy. the general view of
low and null sec was extremely negative. i might have
been there at the wrong time. would it be an idea to
have different npc corps depending on how old your
account is? i dunno, some sort of way to make sure
that new players would spared as much as possible
the old npc players? maybe on the base of how old
the account is? maybe based on skillpoints? im not
sure myself, on ideas or how to word this. it just
struck me how negative the older players were. if this
was how it was when i started to play, i am not sure i
would be playing today.
hey there, firstly thanks for the question, appreciate
you taking the time to ask.having started out as a
high sec miner myself i know all too well the effect of
ganking and how it changes ones perception of eve
online. personally i see it as a perfectly fine mechanic
in its current iteration. in fact i look back and enjoy
the fact i got ganked several times as it drove me to
improve my style.in regards to the idea you posted, i
think it is an interesting possibility. i like the idea of
those goods being "hot" and anyone interacting with
them becomes a known criminal or at least a known
accomplice. there are several stories in eve where
someone has been screwed over and spent a long
time working their way into this group and getting
their revenge.in the current mechanics, a group of
alts ganking someone is pretty much the end of that
story, someone loses their stuff and hopefully learns
a lesson. there's very little opportunity for long term
revenge, finding the actual culprit and plotting to
screw them over. i would be interested to see what
ccp would think about this as a possible mechanic.
i find this idea intriguing but generally i think high-sec
ganking mechanics are easily mitigated if you take
steps yourself. scouting, using webbing toons,
splitting up loads.
hello eve online pilotsi feel the best thing to do is
modify the skill to it gives +2 instead of +1 on both
both target management and advanced target
management so we can get the ships maximum
locked targets. otherwise it looks dumb that we
cannot reach the ships true potential. making ships
having the capability and not be able to reach the
ships full potential is bad form and should be fixed. i
am not saying this for my benefit as i am saying this
to make the game a better place for all of us in new
eden.i also feel that the signal amplifier ii should give
me +2 maximum locked targets bonus as well ship
locking bonus irregardless of skill level to make it so
one can lock +2 per module like it says in the
attributes.yes i also plan will bring this up with my
csm candidates i picked as well.. as i have talked to
others as well as this is something that needs fixed to
make the game better for all of us. as i am not the
only person in the game that feels the way on
this...hint...hint... ;)best regards,zzwolf47ccp
customer | eve online

i just really want to reinforce this xd
you'll have 10 votes from me old friend. i'll try to
convince my hs buddies to vote for you as well.
so wait in that case, taking down a keepstar is the
same as taking down a pos tower in terms of needed
participation ? let alone 2 keepstars on the same grid
?structure types/defenses dont affect the level of
participation needed to take them down ?well errr...
ok....
i tried looking on the csm page but couldn't see the
info that i was looking for. historically players have
only been able to vote if they had a paid up account
that was older than 90 days iirc. with alpha clones i
assume that means a character older than 90 days
but i couldn't see if a clone needs to be omega or not.
it is possible that alphas cannot vote as anyone could
make infinite "voters" if they had the patience and rig
the vote.perhaps have a look or search for the
requirements for voting or post in new users q & a.
don't forget to vote!
plain and simple the removal of ccp fozzie he is a
cancer inside of ccp that really needs to be removed
post haste
i'll be voting for you commander.
thats great to hear, make sure to help get out the
vote!
commander aze, what would your ballod be? have
been a bit busy so still have to fill one.steve will be on
it.is mike still running? think so. then he will be on
it.the rest i have not followed at all.oh, just found
steve's list, nice guideline too.
"schr<U+FFFD>dinger's missile. i dig it." ~ makari
aeron
trying to form a ballot, saw steve promoted you. read
your thoughts, like it. on the list. 07
"schr<U+FFFD>dinger's missile. i dig it." ~ makari
aeron
just asking out of curiosity. i didn't find any canditates
sharing my disappointment in the direction ccp goes
lately, unrelentingly ruining what good they built
before. i guess it makes sense - unfortunately only
happy and content players are willing to devote time
to csm, to confirm to ccp that everything they're doing
is great...sorry, not the right place to rant. due to lack
of suitable candidates voted for you anyway, as a
carebear in my eve days. good luck and have fun.
*wall of txt* *another wall of txt*/repeat*eyes fall out*
nice read, have my votes ;)*thx for lorelei ierendi
putting you on the ballot. "schr<U+FFFD>dinger's
missile. i dig it." ~ makari aeron
yes your are absolutely correct, the account needs to
be over number of 90 days, and was able to vote,
and thank you for your help much appreciated for
help cheers and thank you for all have done and
thank you as well everyone else for their help, future
of eve looks bright with you all in it.
moved to player feature and ideas.
thanks for the support tengu, it means a lot! thanks
for the support!
hi cochise,first of all sorry for my late reply. i hope you
are still interested in my answer.i strongly believe that
ganking itself should remain how its currently set up.
however i do feel that new players should have more
information about the dangers that gankers pose and
how to do something about it.i have always been pro
'loading screen tips'. where as a game loads you
have one tip from the makers on how you could
handle a specific task or skill in the game.this i
believe is what eve really lacks, because eve does
not really have loading screens, instead you have
cinematics on you docking in a station or jumping the
gate. still i feel when this would be incorporated this
would increase player awareness and also adds
quality to the game. so instead of changing the game
mechanics, you'd be giving players that would usually
get ganked a chance to really up their game and fight
back.oh and don't haul billions in a t1 industrial,
outsource it to red frog or another hauler community.
i don't have a problem with implants, links and drugs.
i can't engage them with my 'clean' playstyle of not
using them, so i just avoid them. when those same
pilots ask me to 1v1 when they have a deadspace
fitted ship with drugs and i don't, and they bring in
their link rr legion dishonoring the 1v1, then yeah, i do
like to make fun of them in local, but that is part of
eve. [/quote]ah, you refer to our last dance together.
if you recall, i said in local "want to go?". i never said
"let's 1v1". please keep the facts straight.
thanks for the response.i think we see things pretty
much the same with a few minor exceptions.you
wouldn't want to join faction war if you still want to
mission or do other pve/hauler type things in high
sec. you have a huge wardec with about 50,000
characters. it would be better to be in a null sec corp
if you wanted your characters to still do high sec stuff.
i don't believe gorski ever pushed for rollbacks, real
time intel or really anything that would significantly
improve fw sov. his big thing was fw missions.
(missions don't effect sov) i think ccp addressed his
concerns, but fw sov is still broken.i think people are
mixed about station lockouts. lots of people left fw
due to them. ccp put the lockouts in during inferno.
the idea had come up before then and players
routinely rejected it because it would decrease pvp
thoughout the map. and if you look at a faction war
map you will see there is definitely lots of deadspace.
so i would think lots of faction war players are happy
they can now set up in citadels. of course there are
those who think the lockouts were good and they
have good reasons to support their view as well. i
think that issue is less clear cut than the question of
whether you should most effectively gain sov for your
faction by running away. make faction war occupancy
pvp instead of pve
+1 good platform and knows his stuff
hmm, i find it a bit too drastic. it would effectively
make empire space (i am assuming from 1.0 to 0.1
here) consensual pvp... it would be eve's trammel in
a way...the idea has some merit, in that it has worked
in some other games, but still, i prefer deterrence and
self-policing than outright prevention...of course this
solution here would be the easiest to implement for
ccp.i do agree that the "slap in the face" mechanics
and the weak security system in place is a deterrent
to players playing the game at this time. and this
situation needs to be turned around for sure..if
anyone really cares about eve that is...
how much stuff moves around hs vs. is ganked or
killed in a wardc? how many players move around hs
vs. being ganked or killed in a wardec?
not sure i understand your question. what do you
mean?
most players move around hs unmolested. most
haulers move around hs unmolested. in fact, i'd say
tens of trillions move around for every trillion that died
in a gank or a war dec over the course of a month.
that is hs pvp is not some overwhelming ubiquitous
thing that is stifling game play.but we see or hear
about those who get killed because we keep track of
them via killboards like zkill. so you are reacting to
what you see, but ignoring what you can't see (or see
so easily). go sit in uedama and watch how many
freighters go through without a problem. do it for an
hour. my guess is you'll be surprised.
i see, thanks for explaining so it is a statistical point of
view you are expressing.yet there is a psychological
effect here to consider. this is no different than
someone getting attacked by a shark in a crowded
beach. many people will be deterred from going to
that beach thereafter anyways regardless of the
statistics.i mean, if i come and tell yo there is a great
white that killed someone here yesterday, would you
go swimming even if you know that it is the only
attack in the past 6 months?rationally and
emotionally would you?and that is just one aspect of
all this.the second question to ask, is why is it wrong
that several haulers make it past in uedana? i mean,
do you start killing truckers in the street because too
many trucks get to pass by every day? you would be
considered a murderer and a criminal if you did
that.this kind of behaviour is what is loathed.
everyone can understand on the other hand
warfare.you want to prevent a competitor corp from
making their deliveries and hamper them in the
market, that is why wars are there, make war and
fight it out ambush their haulers etc etc.but the
average new developing player is not after
conquering the market, cornering the market or
competing with industrial copr's profits. the average
player that comes to play eve is a sci-fi enthusiast,
seeking an experience in space, to explore it, to trade
in it to mine in it, not necessarily for grand profit but
for the enjoyment of doing these activities. yes there
are people who enjoy mining as weird as that may
sound to some. and not everyone comes to play eve
with the intent to do combat and murder other
people's character and pop other people's ships. not
everyone is aggressive like that or enjoys to be
aggressive towards other players. and these people
are shunned out of the game.and it is human nature
to want safety too. this is why we invented laws and
peace enforcement. if we were all fine in living every
day looking behind our shoulders in an anarchy we
would not have laws, ethics, human rights and
morals. we would all live like animals, eat or be
eaten.and it matters not if this is a game, the feeling
of constant fear is not enjoyable to many people, who
instead would just move on to play something
else.this is why it would be good, i think, that fear is
considerably reduced from empire space, let people
have fun in it let people come out from it on their own
accord according to their own realisations and thrill,
and most importantly emergent ambitions!there is
nothing wrong with the game having a large empire
population which is enjoying itself according to what
is enjoyable to it.don't you think?
the shark analogy is interesting in that it depends on
the behavior of the shark. if it sticks around and is
territorial no. that would be foolish and
imprudent....and most people who are ganked are
imprudent and foolish.similarly if you undock your
freighter and there is a war dec you are being very
imprudent and foolish.using your analogy not only
was there a shark attack...you can still see the shark
swimming around and yet go in the water
anyways.you must keep in mind that risk is not
something that the game comes along and imposes
on you out of the blue. chances are if you find
yourself in a very risky situation it is because you did
something to "bring" that risk down on you. if you look
at freighter suicide ganks (i.e. excluding war decs) for
example most of them have way too much cargo
value. even the ones that have low cargo value you
should check to see if they have a double wrapped
courier package. those often get ganked based on
the premise: if they double wrapped it, it must be
valuable. in other words, these players took actions
that increased their risk.edit:the takeaway is this: be
prudent and your risk of a suicide gank is actually
quite small. in a war dec again the idea is prudence.
do not undock in your marauder or whatever
expensive ship you have. in times of war dec it is
even more important to follow eve's number one rule:
do not fly anything you cannot afford to lose.so if you
are prudent and learn the game mechanics you'll be
quite safe in hs. you won't be 100% safe. but all you
have to do is be faster than the other guy when the
bear is chasing you. the new player will have to learn
this and the best way is by doing it...learning by
doing. trial and error...and flying ships you can afford
to replace.
actually yes the game does impose risk. because the
game decides what is possible and what is not. not
the players.tell me what is wrong with a guy on a
covetor mining in an ice field in high sec, and
suddenly having a catalyst blowing it up without any
kind of provocation? yes a minute later the catalyst
was dead by concord...too late though for the
covetor.who faulted here?i cannot blame the miner
for mining. did he really do a mistake? for what?
wanting to log on to a game and having some fun?we
could try to blame the killer but that would not solve
anything ..the issue is the game's systems, which
made it possible for the attacker to attack.it causes
everything else mentioned above,to continue upon
the shark analogy, eve empire space is like a resort
in a tropical island inviting people to have fun surfing
while not having a fence in place to protect them from
shark attacksas for the example of the double
wrapped courier package, who decided that people
should not transport these? it seems all very arbitrary
to me and not in a good way.and again the games
system permit you to decide that so and so should
not be transporting what they want to and that they
should be attacked for the apparent value in their
hold.this is a problem...from one side the game
provides tools for transport and mechanics for
packages and form the other lets thugs punish
people for wanting to have fun.don't you see that in
the long run this is detrimental to the game itself.
because the hauler has two choices really. one is to
turn in to a thug themselves and give up hauling or
simply go play something else and be totally
indifferent to you like if you never existed and matter
not.people say "your not obligated to play the game",
and i agree, it is true, i am not. if i think that the game
is unfun, i can quit it no opne can force me to stay,
the game goes in the garbage and gets a bad
reputation and you become nothing, and the
aggressor here becomes nothing, just a whisper in
the wind for whom ia m totally indifferent about. is
that what you want? people to throw eve in the
garbage and consider its player community
insignificant and meaningless?it is only a matter of
time before you find yourself alone in a shrinking
game community...there are many mechanics in the
game already for aggression, faction wars, corp
wars, nulsec wars wormhole wars, if action is what
you seek take your pick it is all there! no need to go
after the new players, the weak players or the
unnamed ones...i dont understand what would be lost
by having a safer more just empire space where
crime is deterred and discouraged...i can only see
what the game and its community would win with
such a setup.
no teckos, you are wrong. it is closer to 500t or 1 000t
isk that move around highsec for every 1t that is lost
in highsec, not 10t isk. this is according to ccp
quant's numbers. for example, last month 1 917 t isk
worth of goods moved in or out of the forge while only
2.69 t isk (0.14%) was destroyed. in domain, it was 1
299 t isk transported and only 1.44 t isk (0.11%) lost.
and those destruction numbers are losses due to all
things, including npcs, not just wars and criminals.
highsec is incredibly safe as a whole. by any
objective or subjective criteria the chances of you
losing something are minuscule in almost every
situation. i get that for whatever reason, some
carebears have convinced themselves that highsec is
a warzone where there is a ganker or wardeccer
behind every asteroid, but it really isn't the case.
those crime numbers would be the envy of any
jurisdiction and show how much the mechanics
favour the highsec denizen over the aggressor.now i
also get that those losses probably disproportionately
fall on the newer players. once players figure out the
mechanics, the only way to lose something in
highsec is to be incredibly unlucky, or become
complacent or greedy/imprudent. most of those
economic numbers reflect veteran players operating
in near complete safely and with impunity to
attackers, while the losses fall to those with less
understanding of the game mechanics (or the just
bad/lazy/greedy). that is however, how a competitive
game is suppose to work. i am not sure how ccp can
ever reconcile the fact that some players find losing
stuff "non-consensually" a 'slap in the face' (or worse,
even just the chance they could lose their stuff) with
the fact eve online is a full-time, pvp sandbox game
where you consent to pvp when you undock. that will
indeed turn off some players. even after they have
nerfed piracy to near zero in highsec, and made
wardecs completely consensual for the individual
player, there are still players who won't accept any
risk that they will lose their stuff no matter how lazily
they play the game, or that it is not possible to be
100% safe no matter how much effort they make to
be left alone. these players are just simply playing the
wrong game. they won't be happy no matter what ccp
does short of trammelizing the game. i don't think ccp
can or will nerf highsec risk much more. we are pretty
much at peak safety. heh, maybe i am wrong on that
as i thought that last week and then ccp came up with
the insta-plex travel hanger. i wonder if the pcu will
track lower after this anti-content safety buff like it
seems to have with all the others? i mean, i think this
hanger probably is a good idea for new players and
maybe thus overall, but it will come at yet another
cost to player activity in the game by removing a
profession (plex hauler) and some player-driven
stories over large losses in plex that drove interest
and engagement with the game. i guess time will tell.
it would be nice if ccp actually added something to
the game to create content and activity instead of just
deleting conflict drivers and making things safer and
safer as seems to have preferred development
activity over the last 5-7 years. such content drivers
might actually turn around the falling player numbers.

i stand corrected (i thought it might be more than that,
but was too lazy to look).and completely agreed with
that final paragraph.
no. that is creating the environment we play in. yes,
ccp made it possible to suicide gank other players in
hs. they also made it harder to kill players than in ls
and especially ns. but that is not "risk". risk is based
almost entirely on the player's actions.for example, if i
put 700 million isk work of cargo into my tanked
freighter and use a scout and manually pilot i'll likely
be fine. on the other hand if i were to put 7 billion into
an anti-tanked freighter and not use a scout my
actions have caused me to face considerably more
risk. note in both instances the game environment is
the same, but it is my actions that dictate the level of
risk i am taking on.risk is a function of player actions.
behave imprudently and you'll have more risk.
behave prudently you'll have lower risk.edit: and
using your mining barge example. the miner made
choices that affected his risk. he went for a covetor
when he could have gone for a procuror with a solid
tank. the former is easy to gank solo, the latter
cannot be ganked solo.choices...this game is all
about choices.
and see black pedro's post above. huge amounts of
isk value moves around the game. absolutely huge.
to put this in perspective lets convert those isk
amounts into us dollar amounts via plex prices in
game and out of game.so 1,917 trillion isk converts to
$32,940,698. lets just call it $33 million.*how much
was destroyed, well 2.96 trillion isk or only a paltry
$50,863. and lets call if $51 thousand.for this kind of
thing to happen i am going to make a wild and bat
**** crazy claim:hs must be very, very, very safe for
people to move that kind of isk value around with so
little destroyed. the actual risk is tiny.*the
calculations:divide 1,917,000,000,000,000 by
1,161,000,000 the latter being the current cost of a
plex in jita.that yields a number of 1,651,163 which
when you multiply it by the oog cost of a plex, 19.95,
we get $32,940,698.edit:to further support my
contention that hs is quite safe, go look at ccp quant's
numbers and in particular look at the ns regions and
the amount of isk value moving around. it is very
small by comparison. why? maybe because it is
dangerous to move around in ns. putting 500 million
isk into a tanked obelisk and using a scout you'll be
be able to move around hs without minimal fear of a
gank. go try that in ns and let me know how it works
out for you. do it everyday for a month.
kathern aurilen,thank you very much for posting.
however you forgot to indicate which option of this
proposal you support.dmc
no, a few years off to finish work before i return to
space politics. fate willing? i will be back.just not this
runmoh and commander is on my ballotmike azariah
----<U+FEFF> <U+FFFD>|(<U+30C4>)/<U+FFFD>
<3 you'll be on mine if you run again btw we should
chat about next year sometime
i suggest a temporary ban from the server for 2 hours
for killing a neutral in high sec and after that double
the ban up to 1 day of a ban. or maybe kind of mute
button when you can't say **** in local but this way
you can't use your weapons. and i suggest griefing
report system for ******* gate campers in high sec.
especially near trade hubs. i suggest ccp start doing
something against ******* gate campers. i swear to
god if goon swarm or pl complains ccp will listen but
if a regular shmuck like me complains ccp does not
give a ****. introduce a ******* griefing system for a
******* gate campers who are killing everyone who is
neutral. and don't ******* tell me that this is eve you
die in eve. ************, you were newb too and you
can't ******* avoid certain systems because the route
will become too long. i can't ******* fly jump freighter
or freighter. but what i suggest is simply neutralize
******* from killing neutrals. especially in high sec.
only in high sec/ near trade hubs. don't care about
low secdear ccp do not disregard my suggestion. and
if you can deliver my suggestion to ccp dev i will vote
for you.
i feel like this requires discussion although im not for
adding bans for ganking.
i suggest a temporary ban from the server for 2 hours
for killing a neutral in high sec and after that double
the ban up to 1 day of a ban. or maybe kind of mute
button when you can't say **** in local but this way
you can't use your weapons. and i suggest griefing
report system for ******* gate campers in high sec.
especially near trade hubs. i suggest ccp start doing
something against ******* gate campers. i swear to
god if goon swarm or pl complains ccp will listen but
if a regular shmuck like me complains ccp does not
give a ****. introduce a ******* griefing system for a
******* gate campers who are killing everyone who is
neutral. and don't ******* tell me that this is eve you
die in eve. ************, you were newb too and you
can't ******* avoid certain systems because the route
will become too long. i can't ******* fly jump freighter
or freighter. but what i suggest is simply neutralize
******* from killing neutrals. especially in high sec.
only in high sec/ near trade hubs. don't care about
low secdear ccp do not disregard my suggestion. and
if you can deliver my suggestion to ccp dev i will vote
for you.
hello friend,i would like to take the time to talk with
you about our lord and savior, toxic yaken. while the
unwashed heathens of new eden are busy worshiping
false gods and elevating false prophets, the one true
god in all his splendor takes the time to read
everyday complaints and grievances such as yours.
oh sinner i urge you to repent of your evil ways and
learn to love our lord, as he has always loved you. a
vote for toxic yaken is a vote for the lord or lords to
enlighten us all! now go! share the good news,
brother!1 peter 5:7 <U+FFFD>casting all your care
upon him; for he careth for you.<U+FFFD>
sock puppet agenda schill alt, safe to ignore.
i'm pretty sure this is bait but i like bait so i will take it
anyways. ccp recognizes ganking as one of the two
main pillars of highsec pvp, and i will personally not
support any proposals to remove it. changing
crimewatch to have compounding bans for criminally
flagged pilots will pretty much kill ganking or force
players into ganking on alphas, and would likely have
a way more negative impact on fw and lowsec
banning anyone who goes criminal there. making this
mechanic work only in highsec would require an even
bigger pass at crimewatch mechanics to either create
a new flag or differentiate between regional criminal
tags, all to create something that ccp doesn't agree
with in the first place.if you have thoughts to make
ganking more interactive through i'd be happy to hear
them. i know there are a lot of players who feel
strongly about ganking and i'm not trying to
discourage those players from reaching out about it,
but i will try to be critical of proposals to changes with
highsec pvp mechanics because of the ways in
which players will inevitably use and abuse
them.either way, i hope you can find someone to vote
for that best represents your opinions.toxic
i suggest a temporary ban from the server for 2 hours
for killing a neutral in high sec and after that double
the ban up to 1 day of a ban. or maybe kind of mute
button when you can't say **** in local but this way
you can't use your weapons. and i suggest griefing
report system for ******* gate campers in high sec.
especially near trade hubs. i suggest ccp start doing
something against ******* gate campers. i swear to
god if goon swarm or pl complains ccp will listen but
if a regular shmuck like me complains ccp does not
give a ****. introduce a ******* griefing system for a
******* gate campers who are killing everyone who is
neutral. and don't ******* tell me that this is eve you
die in eve. ************, you were newb too and you
can't ******* avoid certain systems because the route
will become too long. i can't ******* fly jump freighter
or freighter. but what i suggest is simply neutralize
******* from killing neutrals. especially in high sec.
only in high sec/ near trade hubs. don't care about
low secdear ccp do not disregard my suggestion. and
if you can deliver my suggestion to ccp dev i will vote
for you.
i suggest a temporary ban from the server for 2 hours
for killing a neutral in high sec and after that double
the ban up to 1 day of a ban. or maybe kind of mute
button when you can't say **** in local but this way
you can't use your weapons. and i suggest griefing
report system for ******* gate campers in high sec.
especially near trade hubs. i suggest ccp start doing
something against ******* gate campers. i swear to
god if goon swarm or pl complains ccp will listen but
if a regular shmuck like me complains ccp does not
give a ****. introduce a ******* griefing system for a
******* gate campers who are killing everyone who is
neutral. and don't ******* tell me that this is eve you
die in eve. ************, you were newb too and you
can't ******* avoid certain systems because the route
will become too long. i can't ******* fly jump freighter
or freighter. but what i suggest is simply neutralize
******* from killing neutrals. especially in high sec.
only in high sec/ near trade hubs. don't care about
low secdear ccp do not disregard my suggestion. and
if you can deliver my suggestion to ccp dev i will vote
for you.
hello csm candidates!highsec security and justice
system is an important item for me and i suspect
many others.i would like to inquire, if there are any
candidates here who have in their platform a plan to
introduce or suggest a new and better security &
justice system for highsec to deal with criminals and
criminal behaviours towards weak and innocent
capsuleers.as a highsec citizen of empire space i am
interested in seeing empire space a better place to
live in. and currently find that the security and justice
system in place if very weak. innocents and unnamed
citizens in all four empires get attacked with impunity.
miners are in danger, so are traders and also citizens
working for the various agents, not to mention new
citizens recently having undergone the
transformation to capsuleers.pirates dominate the
lower sec of empire space, it is maybe time that
empires do something about it? ordinary citizens are
not able to conduct business in all of empire
space.please feel fee to reply here with links to your
intro posts so i can look up your plans and better
decide on voting.please only candidates who actually
have a plan to improve security and justice in
highsec.thank you kindly.
i suggest a temporary ban from the server for 2 hours
for killing a neutral in high sec and after that double
the ban up to 1 day of a ban. or maybe kind of mute
button when you can't say **** in local but this way
you can't use your weapons. and i suggest griefing
report system for ******* gate campers in high sec.
especially near trade hubs. i suggest ccp start doing
something against ******* gate campers. i swear to
god if goon swarm or pl complains ccp will listen but
if a regular shmuck like me complains ccp does not
give a ****. introduce a ******* griefing system for a
******* gate campers who are killing everyone who is
neutral. and don't ******* tell me that this is eve you
die in eve. ************, you were newb too and you
can't ******* avoid certain systems because the route
will become too long. i can't ******* fly jump freighter
or freighter. but what i suggest is simply neutralize
******* from killing neutrals. especially in high sec.
dear ccp do not disregard my suggestion. and if you
can deliver my suggestion to ccp dev i will vote for
you.

if searching through the threads of the 64 candidates
is too much work for you:
hello miss. lorelei.thank you i read your platform. it is
interesting.i do not come often to the forums, i
thought it would be better to just ask instead of trying
to read through all the platforms. besides, it also
shows like this who is actually paying attention to
ordinary citizens like myself in the community on top
of who is interested in enhancing the game play of
empire space for those that live in it.thank you!
an interesting idea. there should be no "free lunch" in
the game.
from my understanding beyond having to "flee" from
npc police when in low standings, there are no real
advantages to having a high standing to a faction.
back in the day, if i remember correctly, you needed
a high standing to an empire to place a pos in high-
sec, alas no longer. i have unfortunately no answers
ready-at-hand, but i believe that having worked a high
standing should give something back (maybe a
reduction in fuel costs for structures?)
oh yeah, we really need eve to be esport with que for
1v1...what not clear for me: why somebody who lives
in 0.0 alliance is relevant for lowsec, just 'couse once
he played there?
i think it is pretty clear what we should expect if vote
on you, since you talk only about yourself, nothing
straight info what you want to achieve in csm, and
you not answer at all to the questions. some people
will vote for you for sure, many lemmings play this
game. but from what we can see now you will care
only with those few, not us, the whole playerbase.
i suggest a temporary ban from the server for 2 hours
for killing a neutral in high sec and after that double
the ban up to 1 day of a ban. or maybe kind of mute
button when you can't say **** in local but this way
you can't use your weapons. and i suggest griefing
report system for ******* gate campers in high sec.
especially near trade hubs. i suggest ccp start doing
something against ******* gate campers. i swear to
god if goon swarm or pl complains ccp will listen but
if a regular shmuck like me complains ccp does not
give a ****. introduce a ******* griefing system for a
******* gate campers who are killing everyone who is
neutral. and don't ******* tell me that this is eve you
die in eve. ************, you were newb too and you
can't ******* avoid certain systems because the route
will become too long. i can't ******* fly jump freighter
or freighter. but what i suggest is simply neutralize
******* from killing neutrals. especially in high sec.
only in high sec/ near trade hubs. don't care about
low secdear ccp do not disregard my suggestion. and
if you can deliver my suggestion to ccp dev i will vote
for you.
i think there is another very important mechanic
which makes wardecs so lame - it's the so-called
'undock-fapping' gameplay. it's pretty common for
wardeccers to just sit at trade hub stations and wait
for easy prey. it's more like fishing than pvp.the
undock mechanics of citadels should extend to
stations for everybody who has security status above
criminal level. this would achieve 2 things: 1) less
deaths on undock due to lags; 2) no station-camping
by wardeccers. gate-camping is not the best
gameplay either, but it is significantly less safe for the
participants than station-camping.to make risk/reward
scheme work in wardecs we also need a proper risk
source. we should rather have mercenary mechanics
(which was a great idea, just not working) useful. this
can be achieved by these steps:1) eliminating
undock-camping to move wardeccers further from
safety;2) introducing highsec covertcynos (see this
topic:
"what is the csm?"
@noobmanin regards of what people want from ccp
and how well can you deliver that feedback, what
kind of feedback are you getting on the new dscan
and probe scanner and what is your take on those?
what do you like about them and what would you
remove / ch
vote lillik e for csmxii! women for w-space!
what do you mean my viewpoint regarding them?
that's a broad topic and any way to answer it in its
current form could make it appear as though i'm just
fluffing something out. could you be a big more
concise?
to be quite honest, and you're probably not going to
be a fan of this. i'm actually happy where the ganking
is in highsec right now. i've performed it myself both
on kalen directly and on a few alts. there is no way to
alter the loot passing suspect without changing
something for all sections of space unfortunately. as
long as the hauler is in the fleet that kills a freighter,
there's no risk for them. also, the profitability really
comes down to the freighter themselves. if they're a
properly tanked obelisk with a moderate amount of
items in the hold. then it will be significantly less
profitable to gank them versus the cargo expanded
charon carrying like 2 incursion pirate battleships.
that's where it comes down to risk versus reward on
your behalf. the more you carry at once, the more risk
you're taking.
i don't like to play word games and words lawyer with
people. if i say something or someone else says
something i take what they mean at face value, i don't
twist my words and you do yourself discredit by doing
so, next you'll be telling me that jita scammers are all
honest traders you just didn't ~read the rules~.
regardless of that, my point still stands in response to
your post; i have nothing against people who play
only to win and break agreements in eve, i don't have
a problem with command bursts, alts, implants, drugs
or any of that, but i reserve the right to make fun of
them for their risk aversion privately on my own
stream.contributer to eve is easy:<U+FFFD>
what does that matter to a new player? in regards to
the op.they see a twitch/youtube vid, or they see eve
is free on steam. (i would wager most new folk
passing through eve's doors lately come from steam,
followed closely by accidentally stumbling on media
news.)they don't know anyone and they have a small
idea what eve entails. it's in space. it's a
sandbox...ooooh. they are unlikely to have any
concept of any in game value, or what high sec or low
sec is. they don't yet know of the great data wizard
ccp quant.they choose gallente apparently because
of the soon to be removed empire lore text 'the only
true democracy in new eden'they do the npe and
think, ooooh this is pretty, this is actually jolly good
fun, i might play this.they look at the sub fee to go
omega power! ...then ask in rookie or starter corp
"can a new player get a plex in a month" or "what do i
need to do to make enough for a plex each month"
...common theme. "missions" someone says, "work
up to lvl 4's" ...will take time, and skill points...
"exploration" another says, but they can't scan
anything good down and when they do someone else
jumps in, nails the site and leaves... "join a null sec
corp" another announces, "can make all the monies
and win at eve." but, "don't trust anyone" and, "don't
fly what you can't afford to loose!" "wormholes"
someone bellows, "ninja gas clouds" "bookmark the
entrance" "don't talk in local" "warp out right away if
you see sleepers, or anyone else"...sleepers, gas
clouds, bookmarks... er...they think about it, about all
the options available to them in this darkly oppressive
alternate reality... and go mining. in high sec.they get
ganked.they realize, with a cold shiver, they have no
control over their stuff. at any moment anything they
have worked towards can be violently taken away.
that in effect, the time they put into the game has no
value, and as such appears unvalued by the very
creators. that if they did sub, they would essentially
be paying for this unwelcome outcome. why bother
investing any time at all in it?they leave.they directly
leave, they don't pass go. they simply go play another
game, and they certainly don't bother filling in the why
did you leave questionnaire. thus providing ccp with
zero useful feedback.
oh for god's sake. tell you what, next time a new
player comes along we'll send him to you so you can
hold his hand and pat his poo-poo.and if a new player
is leaving because he can't earn a plex...that is an
incredibly stupid argument. what do you think it would
take so any old new player could earn a plex in a few
days or 2-3 weeks after joining the game.here: any
new player who is thinking about buying plex in game
wildly unrealistic expectations. oh, i'll earn a plex
every month so i can "play for free" by grinding hours
of my free time...to "play for free". he'd quit anyways
out of the sheer horror of spending all his free time
grinding.in fact i'll offer this alternative conjecture
about plex; the people who largely buy plex and "play
for free" are more than likely people who have been
playing awhile and have developed in-game income
streams/wealth that let them do this. some plex are
bought as a store of value (although with deflation
going on right now, this need is reduced imo). those
selling plex are by and large the new players who
want isk without the grind. that is plex are most likely
filling a redistributive role in-game. shifting isk from
those who have it to those who do not. this is a good
thing. isk sitting in player x's wallet is doing nothing.
plex going into new guys wallet will likely be quickly
spent and put back into some degree of circulation.
further, it weakens the market for illegal isk
purchases.all this focus on "how can a new player
get a plex" is just simply moronic. new players do get
plex...for sale so they can get isk.
the ability to mouse over a value and get the real
(double or float) value, and be able to copy it. the
rounded off value makes it impossible to create
accurate spreadsheets. also provide information, on
one of your websites, on how to "properly" calculate
broker fees and any other value that requires a
complex equation, using actual values (not rounded
off ones). this always has been an issue to me.the
ability to drag n drop links from the people and
places menu into chat or mail. currently, you have to
open the info panel, then drag n drop the image or
text of the place.auto pilot would be better if it
stopped by the gate around 1km instead of
15km.change plex so that it cannot be dropped if ship
is destroyed, so it can be stolen by enemy players.
this is the same as stealing real money.add the ability
to compress ore in any station, not just player owned
citadels or player owned stations.either get rid of, or
change what the margin trading skill does. reducing
escrow is not a perk; rather, it's a problem when you
run out of money, causing your buy orders to be not
fulfilled.make concord more dangerous to players
who engage unlawfully in hi-sec. as of now, players
tend to not care about concord and engage
unlawfully without penalty.for a game based on 20+
thousand years in the future, why are we still using
metal can steam-punk style ships and balloon
propulsion? why not give us biologically grown ships
that can fold space?when warping, instead of having
a heat wave tube for the effect, why not make it so
the whole environment threads out like in startrek or
other science fiction?why is space full of clouds? why
not make the background with different types of stars
and galaxies and other things based on astronomy?
that would be nice, yes. in many cases, the actual
number is provided through the api. not for broker
fees thoughcould have sworn you could. i'll bring it up
if there's an appropriate time. not going to change.
manual piloting will always be safer and more
efficient than autopiloting. this is a design decisiongo
have a read of the most recent devblog on plex. you
want to see the plex vault.probably not going to
change. there have to be benefits to people having
infrastructure at risk.margin trading is a very very
useful skill when you get to scale. i have buy orders i
could not cover if they all came in at once, but in
regular activity, they're all covered by the
corresponding sell orders. concord _will_ destroy the
ship of people who engage unlawfully in highsec. if
you've seen people avoiding this, you should enter a
support request, as this is a banable offence.... uh
what?... uh, what?... you have heard of nebula, right?
...ahh... all such good ideas, sadly nothing new.
regrettably eve doesn't obey the laws of common
sense. you get used to it, or stop playing. most
people take the later option, hence the small player
base.with the exception of the proposed plex vault
change, (and that is being fought tooth n nail as i
type) all the things you mentioned where deliberately
designed to be that way, the plex losses where
originally by design too, but someone has grown up
and finally seen sense. it's all part of a dedicated
ideal that ccp would rather have a smaller player
base of bullies than a larger player base of happy
gamers.
please be respectful and post constructively.
oh the salt lolbut seriously it's hi sec and its the most
unsafe space in eve. why because people don't get
that concord isn't a preventive measure like safe
zones in wow. you aren't playing wow. your playing
eve. so next time instead of wishing somebody else
will save you like the csm or ccp why not get off your
butt use a scout and play like you have some brain
matter in between your ears. thank you ccp csm and
3rd party sites like zkillboard for providing methods
for us understanding this maxim "never
underestimate the power of stupidity in large groups"
george carlin
well as i stated before. the mechanics are on their
own good. however the way ccp reaches newbro's
on prepping them might not be. hences the fact i
believe they should implement these info lines when
you are docking/undocking or when you jump the
gates. this could be very suttle, such as "the amarrian
empire wishes you a nice flight, beware of gankers"
or "the gallentean authorities wish you a nice flight,
beware that shooting other players in high security
space could lead to falling of security status".also i
am pro bringing back isk gambling sites. i think rmt
(real money trading) should not be a reason to ban
them. however implement rules (such as ccp
supervision).
yes and no. the keepstar has a really big feature that
i think is one of the problems, and that's its arcing
doomdsay weapon. done properly, a keepstar can
essentially wipe several caps off the field with this,
and in combination with using the bombs, missiles,
and applicable ewar, it's a huge force multiplier.i
agree groups like hk are so entrenched that there's
no easy way of doing any kind of eviction, but what
i'm arguing is that a pos's defenses capabilties (even
something like a large dickstar/deathstar) is at most
as capable as a fortizar (though personally, i believe
in terms of offensive capabilities a fortizar is
significantly better, though it loses in the ewar role to
a proper dickstar), whereas a keepstar can add the
equivalent of many many ships in support.also
players of eve, if you haven't done so yet, find a
candidate that speaks to you and get out and vote for
them. if you don't participate in this game, you're
essentially giving away your right to whine about any
future changes that ccp wants to bring to eve,
because you're demonstrating with your actions that
you don't care.
sigh, evidently my response didn't submit last time.i
think the whole standings model could be a little
clearer. for instance i don't think it's obvious that
when you run missions you are going to lose
standings with a certain faction, so much so that
eventually you can't go into their space any more.i
haven't gone through the process of trying to repair
faction standing but i hear it's a bit of a pain to do
so....
i love this narrative. it is like a ghost story told around
the camp fire, or an urban legend that is passed from
one generation of teenagers in town to the next
based on no evidence or on no facts. it sounds
plausible and resonates emotionally with eve players,
yet completely misses the big picture. ok here is my
version of the tale, likely much more reflective of the
average gamer who attempts eve:"they think about all
the exciting options in this dystopian, war-torn
universe ccp has built and they decide they first need
to to gather some resources and perhaps train some
skills before they head out on their exciting
adventure... so they go mining. in highsec. they mine
for some days in a silent belt in highsec... and
nothing happens. they keep going, perhaps
upgrading their mining ship after a few weeks and
still, nothing happens. now they are getting a little
antsy. the player-driven battles over space or industry
they heard about are not apparent to them so they
start to question why they are spending so many
hours staring at a mining laser for no real reason.
perhaps at this point they just stop logging in, or
maybe they switch to missioning as at least here
there are some explosions. now a few months later,
they are sitting in their raven still having no
interactions with the greater sandbox then other
perhaps selling/buying a few things on the market,
and finally it dawns on them: eve is a terribly boring
game. they gave it a try, but nothing happened. no
opponent materialized and no greater goal appeared
to them. they spent months playing but saw no
massive fleet fights nor any of the machinations of
the industrialist of new eden for control of the
markets. just a few other silent miners in the belts,
and spent a lot of time interacting with repetitive npc
agents. why bother wasting any more time or money
on this snoozefest?they leave. they directly leave,
they don't pass go. they don't come to the forums and
whine about how they were ganked, or how unfair the
game is. they simply leave for another game more
interesting than eve's current highsec solo
experience. the only evidence of their presence and
their weeks and months of boredom is buried deep in
the game logs, found only when someone like ccp
rise or ccp quant goes looking."i am sure a handful of
people have left the game after being ganked and not
bothered to fill out the questionnaire. but i am
convinced that the sterile and lifeless place much of
highsec has become has bored many-fold more
potential eve players out of the game, many of whom
also leave quietly, or perhaps even tell ccp their
game is "boring". probably most of them wouldn't
even articulate it as such, and just attribute their
inability to get into the game as something wrong or
incompatible with them, even though they just never
found the more exciting or fun bits that they might
have really enjoyed. really though, the problem is
showing these new players the real potential of the
game through the backdrop of an overly safe and
unrepresentative-of-the-rest-of-the-game place like
highsec.eve online is a complex and unique game
that will always have trouble getting players engaged
with the full game. however, making highsec
completely safe would not do anything to help the
game long-term. as ccp rise said:"we have tried and
tried to validate the myth that griefing has a
pronounced affect on new players - we have failed...
isolating players away from the actual sandbox
seems very contrary to what we would like to
accomplish."yes, you can lose stuff in new eden. but
it is so, so, so much easier to make stuff in modern
eve online that in almost any situation losses are
inconsequential, even for new players. if you cannot
handle losing a fraction of a percent of your net worth
under any circumstance however, eve online might
not be the game for you.
and one last campaign article before voting
closes:how to get capsuleers in eve to vote
(crossingzebras):
this is actually very correct many players undergo the
same.especially the last part about not giving
feedback. most players will not, they will indeed throw
the game in the garbage bin and move on. the
problem being the game.having said this there is also
those who come in to the game fully aware of its
realities but simply wanting to enjoy the other aspects
of it sans too much pvp aggression or conflict. i mean
the occasional suicide gank etc is acceptable, it is
part of the reality of the game. but one can still enjoy
it through some missions still enjoy various "careers"
between security distribution, mining and research.
small scale industry can be fun as well.the issue here
is of a different nature. people who are not interested
too much in pvp aggression and conflict are limited in
how far they can have fun in the game.and in the
long terms the game does become boring under that
limitation. someone said i do not remember in which
thread that ccp made some statistic and found out
that people who were ganked were more likely to stay
in game that those that haven't.i say this maybe so, i
would not dispute the factual statistic, but i am
disputing the interpretation of them. the people who
stay after being ganked did so because the gank
gave them anew area to explore of the game many of
then most probably wanted to learn how to fight
themselves and it was a change of pace and added
more time to their enjoyment. but the people who
were not ganked and quit did not leave because they
did not get ganked, they left because the game is
boring in high sec in the long run if you do not wish to
pvp...and i think the actual numbers were not given i
seriously think that there were far more people who
left than those who stayed. the game may sport pvp,
but it is still an mmorpg, and it has to be expected
that it will attract people who do not wish to have fun
with pvp and are looking to have fun in other areas.
high sec is the place they can have that fun, but it is
limited and this limits their time in game
too.expanding highsec to include more systems all
the way to (in my opinion) 0.2 (with similar security
punishment as 0.5) would in my opinion make it
viable for many such players to stay in eve much
much longer, and heck even move to other areas of
the game in their own pace and time too. it would
definitely make eve high sec allot less boring since it
will open the way to more mission opportunities
mining and industry for these players with a relative
"protection"..(we all know eve is not 100% safe
anywhere).unfortunately, the vocal mob of the forums
is of the mindset that everyone should pvp and any
other opinion gets bombarded and burred alive with
rhetoric of what they think and want the game should
be like. all the while new players keep on quiting.
the most glaring problem with your idea is it is an
obviously zero-sum change that would delete much
of the space that thousands of players use every day.
why should ccp take away 75% of lowsec and give it
to you? don't you think that might have a negative
impact on the players that do log in to fight and pve in
lowsec today? i mean, it's not like highsec is
overcrowded. i make a point of visiting the more
obscure corners of highsec and the vast majority of
systems once you get away from the trade hubs
have only a couple pilots in them at any time or are
empty. further, have you ever entered lowsec? aside
from the faction warfare stuff, the general missions
and mining gameplay is near identical to the rest of
empire space. sure, you have level 5 and some
higher end ore but it basically is the same as highsec.
if you want to run missions or mine you already can
perfectly well in highsec. i don't think slightly
increasing the number of systems where players can
mine or mission with concord protection is going
make anyone stay playing eve much longer. the
gameplay would be near identical and they can
already do it in the 1200 or so systems in highsec.
removing most of lowsec as an accessible pvp space
and home of faction warfare would cause people to
leave however. it would seem to me if you really want
that content, it would be better to ask ccp to add that
content back to highsec than delete most of lowsec to
give it to you. i do find it amusing that you accuse
others of "bombarding" you with rhetoric about how
the game should work when it is you asking for
radical changes to the game as it doesn't conform to
your narrow view of how a pvp game should work.
many of us actually like eve the way it is, as does ccp
apparently. i am not sure where you get your hubris
to tell everyone else how they should play or design
an open-world pvp sandbox game. by all means,
share what you are looking for in a game, but you
also need to realize how and why eve was designed
this way, and that ccp has stuck with this vision for
almost 15 years, and that it is an mmo that other
people like to play in its current form.
i'm sorry to say, but you just post the same flawed
ideas over and over without actually considering the
counter arguments to your rather flawed proposals. it
was mentioned multiple times in multiple threads that
expanding highsec will literally do nothing since it
already offers enough space and systems which are
completely empty if you are looking for a corner
where you don't have to compete with too many
people.if you are thinking that the problem is the pve
content then why are you not asking for more pve
content? in the last years ccp actually started to
expand on that and it would not surprise me if they
add more interesting content in the future for people
who like to shoot npc etc. this can be added to the
highsec as it is, i don't see why this should be a
problem.the problem most people have with your
approach is that you literally try to delete whole parts
of the game and the whole core concept that you are
not 100% save everywhere. this has nothing to do
with the availability of pve content. those things are
completely unrelated.
if a new player is busy trying to earn a plex, i'm sorry
he is doing it wrong. if you were to buy a sub for an
entire year it costs $10.95 vs. $19.95 for a plex.
grinding for a plex is going to be very costly in terms
of leisure time forgone, especially for a new player.
such a player is, literally, setting himself up for
failure.first off, this is a competitive game. no matter
what you are in competition with other players. you
will always be in competition with other players even
if you are never ganked.that is suppose you want to
mine. and further suppose you are never, ever
ganked. you are still in competition with other players
who are mining and buying minerals, and those who
are engaged in arbitrage of minerals between
regions. the point is, if you define pvp as competition
it is everywhere in eve. you cannot avoid it. ever.now
if you want to avoid ship-to-ship pvp fine. go for it, but
given the nature of eve if another is determined that
you experience such pvp you are going to experience
it.so get used to it.and yes, the analysis suggests that
those who interact with other players vs. being
isolated in their own solar system never interacting
stay substantially longer with the game.that is
possible, but you are omitting that those killed legally
stay almost as lone, on average, as those ganked.
the implication is pretty clear: player-on-player
interaction is good for retention. that is treating the
game as a console game and having no interaction is
bad for retention.of course those who left probably
outnumbered those who stayed. those who were
ganked and killed legally were about 15% of the
sample. thus 85% were not suicide ganked or killed
legally. so it is reasonable to conclude those who left
was larger...but those who left were predominantly
those who were not suicide ganked or killed legally.
in other words, you don't know how to interpret the
data yourself.i have cut off the rest as it the usual
mealy-mouthed nonsense about "some players do
not like pvp." fine, then gtfo. this is a competitive
mmorpg. no matter what you are going to do you are
going to come into conflict/competition with other
players. be it via the market, trying to suck up all the
ice before the other guy, or shooting him in the face.
that is the core nature of the game. either you grasp
that or you get out of f***town.
oh and regarding a new player grinding for a
plex.hey, you dopes....opportunity cost.you get it
when it comes to mining your own minerals, but you
completely fail to get it everywhere else.hint:
opportunity cost applies to literally everything.holy
****, can't believe i had to explain this.
hello lorelei,if i may i would like to ask a few questions
to know your thoughts on some topics.1st - what do
you think of highsec content? is it fun, is it
accessible? is it enough?2nd- would you like to have
more content accessible in high sec and if yes, what
would be your suggestions to do it?3rd - would you
be for an expansion of high sec to include low sec?
meaning expanding the concord rule set to include all
the way to 0.2. with only 0.1 systems being bereft of
concord presence. how do you think this would
sound current to high sec citizens?4th- you speak of
do you think this to be a result of lack of trust? maybe
even some level of fear? are empire citizens apathetic
to one another because they fear and do not trust
one another no knowing who will turn around to back
stab them or player kill them in an ambush or declare
war on them? is this maybe what prevents empire
citizens form developing a "we"?5th- what do you
think of factional warfare?6th- while many in eve
seem to confuse the difference between player killing
and pvp, i would like to know if you see a difference
and what would be your thoughts separately towards
pvp in general and player killing.to be clear here, pvp
means a contest between two people capable of
fighting, while player killing is the more cowardly
violent action of a player towards other who is weaker
and unable to fight. this also includes ganking in low
sec between a hunter and a victim.7th- do you think
that justice and punishment systems are adequate
currently in empire space? and if not any ideas on
how to improve them?8th- why do you play eve?all
the best in your campaign!

hi! thanks for taking the time to write.i saw your
independent thread on the forums:
nope. why would anyone be for that? there are lots of
high sec systems with hardly any life... why make
more of them? that will not address any problems... i
have mined / existed in high sec. i have mined /
existed in lowsec and i have mined / existed in
nullsec. despite my killboard i felt safest in null sec.
nullsec for mining safety... and i would urge my
carebear cousins to try it. concord do and mean
nothing. literally nothing. gankers have optimised
themselves so much... that expanding concord
response space will make (imho) large swathes of
eve much less attractive for anyone who uses
them.what do the different sec statuses really mean,
anyway? different ores available? one can do quite
well just mining veldspar (just ask chribba). the
overwhelming majority of high sec citizens wouldn't
hear it if you said it. that is the sad truth. and what
would they do with it? like i said, there are already
enough high sec systems... or do you think everyone
should have their own.now a question from me: have
you tried, for example, ganking? do you know what
you are talking about?[quote=sivar ahishatsu] 4th-
you speak of do you think this to be a result of lack of
trust? maybe even some level of fear? are empire
citizens apathetic to one another because they fear
and do not trust one another no knowing who will turn
around to back stab them or player kill them in an
ambush or declare war on them? is this maybe what
prevents empire citizens form developing a
"we"?/quote] no, i do not think it is a lack of trust, in
general. i do not think it has anything to do with fear. i
do not think the average high sec carebear of which i
speak knows enough about the game or game
mechanics to develop either a lack of trust... or fear.
seriously... have you tried speaking to high sec
carebears about things.in your question i think you
credit the basic carebear with too much insight. there
have already been great changes in the game (eg the
end of awoxing, the end of war decs with character
log-on/off info...) that have done a lot to benefit high
sec carebears.... but most of us do not know it. sad
but true.... oh so true.as it stands, war decs are easy
to avoid.... simply corps reform...
as an aside, i got booted from the minerbumping
channel when i tried to invite them to the discussion.i
will probably post the chatlogs (such as they are) on
my blog later.[20:33:26] leconte boudreaux > i've
updated myself on what ever lorelei ierendi was on
about. she's running for hi-sec csm? we've already
got a savior.[20:36:39] hero of hisec > i doth not
believe in democracy but toxic yaken is yonder hisec
candidate.[20:36:50] tax collector karlmarx >
carebear only vision for hisec*[20:36:58] tax collector
karlmarx > aka worthless[20:37:20] hero of hisec >
democracy is suicide.[20:39:30] leconte boudreaux >
typical politician.noone there has actually read my
threads or anything i have said. typical high sec!i
guess when i run next year they will also be getting
all uptight about how i don't consider their playstyle or
appreciate their content or whatever... well suckers...
you had your chances. i don't wanna hear any more
of your complaints.
oh. and there was me thinking that a minerbumper
would say something about their saviour (who once
was in the running for csm until he withdrew... ever
heard the interview?
i will withdraw my prior post on your count of
relevancy.i also object to your reference of james 315
and his interview on the ground of relevance. i find it
unrelated this threat on the grounds that it is being
used to discourage the merit of my post on behalf of
the new order of hi-sec on account that i am acting as
my own individual and request that you withdraw it as
well.
is high sec an amorphic entity in the hands of npcs
and not the players?
yes.
thank you. i shall be sure to quote you (as above).
do you also agree?
the answer to that question is contained in the above
thread.i hate answering the same question over and
over again. if you took time to read what i wrote you
would not need to ask this question.thank you for
coming.
hi! it's nice to see a candidate with a focus on high-
sec. i've a couple of questions for you, if you've the
time:* what are your thoughts concerning the 3/10
ded site called "rogue drone asteroid infestation"? do
you often run this specific site? why or why not?*
what is your position on the subject of reputation
grinding via missions? do you believe it is fine the
way it is or would you propose changes, and why?*
what are your thoughts on npc corporations? * what
are your thoughts concerning the overall size of high-
sec space? too big? too small? just right? and, of
course, why?thanks in advance for your replies, and
best of luck with your candidacy. o7
thanks for stopping by!i have no specific thoughts
about that particular site. i can't remember specifically
ever having run it. in general i found those sites either
too easy or terribly hard with little in the way of "just
right". i can make more isk doing other stuff. i had a
question about standings/reputation already in this
thread, from someone trying to promote their own
ideas. maybe you should check that out?
standings/reputaton have become increasingly
irrelevant over time. i regret the time i wasted
grinding standings... i notice no effect from them, and
if i could earn better isk with better standings /
reputation then it is not enough isk more to motivate
me to grind. with the changes regarding jump clones
and the arrival of citadels... standings etc are
completely irrelevant for me now. i think it would be
fun for capsuleers to be allocated to more npc
corporations than currently. maybe even influenced
by standings. otherwise the npc corporations are also
pretty much invisible and irrelevant for me and my
gameplay. if anything it is too big. i don't know why
concord would waste resources policing systems that
have no activity. and there are very many systems
that are just lifeless... honestly i was thinking it might
be fun to have the sec of a system fluctuate a tiny bit
depending on activity... but i expect i will write more
on that after the elections.
if your still to vote, please include me in your choices
as a vote for the small person
since:- noone wanted to buy my votes listed here-
there are only 2 days left for voting- your thread was
at the top of csm candidates forum and i couldnt
bother to read all 60+ other threads (well i didn't
really read yours either, only the title)- it will be funny
to see some nullsec carebears/code guys crying if
you get to csm- currently highsec is more dangerous
than sov nullsec but much less rewarding- highsec
needs to be improved so we get more new, casual
playersi'm happy to inform you that you got 9 votes
from me.2nd one on my list will be the fuzzworks guy
since i use his apienjoy!
can still vote please go vote!!!
thank you for taking the trouble to vote in the
elections!
thanks john! all about it! lets see how things pan out.
should know shortly. i am very grateful for all the
support and interest in seeing a fw candidate get
elected who is all about fw. former executor templis
calsf alliance
tomorrow, march 26th is the last day to vote for a
wormhole csm
the judge has my vote and as in the reddit posting
showed i asked others as well to vote for him. in our
time in co2 he was nothing but awesome to my corp.
he was always looking for feed back on things so he
could pass those along to ccp. he is literally one of
the hardest working guys csm wise by not missing a
meeting at all. keep doing awesome things judge and
i will keep voting for you, and thanks for what you do.
just a few days left!vote lillik e for csmxii! women for
w-space!
now's the time :)
today is the last day for you to possibly vote in the
csm election, so i hope that you'll consider me for
your ballot. either way, i hope you do find someone
who you feel will represent you to ccp and vote
accordingly.
hello lorelei,it is not over until it is over. late in the
campaign according to whom? if there are still days
remaining for voters to vote you shoudl use them.yes
there were votes involved in you answering the
questions of course. so first let me say thank you for
answering, and taking the time to do so, the
questions to the best of your ability. i was hoping for
more transparency and it feels like i am touching on
to some topics that are very politicized in nature. but
its fine.now, you asked me some questions it is only
fair that i answer back.you asked why to expand high
sec, but you did nto answer questions 1 and 2.the
answer is more content more fun for the peopel who
are not interested in playing the empire building
game of nulsec or the aggression game of otehr
areas of eve.this is what characterizes highsec in
reality. you said yourself that you tried the ganking.
and? did you like it? did you enjoy it? is it you? are
you a person who takes enjoyment in ruining
someone elses day just to prove to yourself that you
are better and have some illusory power over others?
my guess is no, becaue otherwise you would have
become a player killer yourself. atr least you know
what it is all about.so it is about more content and fun
for the niche of players who also play eve and are not
interested in fighting with other players as part of their
daily routine of fun in game.. see i do understand i
am standing in front of a mounten of a mindset here.
and in reality i am not hoping that anything will
change for eve.at least not before another similar
game releases (there are a couple alreay in the
making) so the chances are that a better game than
eve will release in the comming years before eve
decides to change. the irony is that the advocates of
the status quo will also change game because all
their victims will move.seen it in so many other
games in the 20 years i have been playing mmorpgs
and especially of the oldshool sandbox type, with full
pvp and full loot. i am nto new to this setting.but i am
intent on letting my opinion and thoughts known.
because many act like if these diverging opinions do
not texist and that everyone should file in to follow
blindly the narative and mindset that is
vehiculated.suffice it to say my answer to your
question, i have.i have. but it is not me, i did not enjoy
it. player killing for pleasure, for mindset for profit
even, is to me a parctice of low lives. human beings
without ethics or honor. murderers and criminals that
is all theya re and have no resepct from me no matter
their kill counts or anything else they think make
sthem somehow great. the act to kill innocent
unsuspecting weaker vioctims is the act of a
coward.and it looks like eve is full of them. thena
again this might be by design right? this is the
dystopian part of eve, where all the low lives gather.
and the funny thing is, the dystopia extends outside
of the game itself in these very forums in the meta
game too, people who want to imporve the gaming
experience and gameplay are shunned and blamed
for it as well. lol.not for long though, to eve's loss.
mind you i do love pvp, just not player killing, and
while many in eve pretend that there is no difference
between the two, there is one.in any case, not here
to make my case, just here to reply to you :) all the
best to you in the elections. and wishing you fun
within the vastness of space!
there has not been a reply to this so let me volunteer
one.a way to make wars more meaningfull is to make
it consentual, when wars in empire space.first of all
the system would make a distinction between corps
based in empire space or not.so here is how it could
work in empire space:- war is declared by corp a vs
corp b. corp a pays nominal fee of 50 mill.- war
declarations must be mutual in order to be war. so
corp b must accept the war.- once acepted by both
corps, all membership changes are locked for a
perriod of 4 weeks, no one is permited to quit the
corp and no new recruits can be accepted. the war is
on for 4 week cycles.- after four weeks there is a 24
hour "negotiations window", this is the time when
corps can recruit new members, or members quit the
corp. this is the time also for corps to negotiate
mutual peace agreement and put an end to the war. if
not war is renewed for another 4 week cycle.- at any
time a war can end via a corp surrendering. now
victories and surrenders would be recorded in war
history.in my experience such war mechanics are
much more meaningfull. as people are in for war plan
accordingly have a reputation to defend. and wars
are not used to simply serve as a money sink (design
wise) or a way to bully other corps. wars are, like this,
a much more engaging activity for both sides and not
something to flee from.but most importantly, much
more meaningful.
you have my vote, even if you are a templis
;)#makefwgreatagain , something like thatmeerclaw
they already have:
thank you! i checked the link, but it looks no different
:(
voting done, now we await fanfest to see who got
lucky and who got elected.m
best of luck to you too and all the others.i have some
proposals to make but i am waiting for the results to
be announced and then we shall see if the csm is
actually representing all of the eve players. i am sure
you would you sound open minded.
with voting for csm xii now closed, i'd like to take a
moment to thank everyone who took the time to read
my platform and considered me for a spot on their
ballot. i remain hopeful that between the support i've
seen for myself and the rest of the highsec ticket, we
will see a representative elected for highsec to this
year's csm. if not, you can expect to see me again
next year, working to build up the next highsec ticket.
looking forward to seeing the results at fanfest in a
couple weeks.thanks again. o7toxic
it worked for me. perhaps there is some caching
issue? maybe try from another browser or device?
so strange. it works for me at this url:
thanks for that - i see the new words here; perhaps
some odd upstream caching is occurring from my
location.
