98	english	 	 WE WANT YOUR INPUT!	To help keep our roadmap responsive to the needs of all of you in the community we have prepared a special survey asking about your experiences with Upwell Structures and asking for your opinions on what we should be prioritizing for our next steps. We have already asked the CSM for additions to the backlog and then for their individual priority rankings of a similar set of potential changes and now we want to hear from the community as a whole. This survey has been emailed directly to a large number of EVE players to ensure responses from a wide cross-section of the community, and it can also be found at this link directly.	We do want to make clear that since many of these changes require wildly different development time commitments we can’t commit to completing all of them and the feedback we receive from this survey will represent one of several inputs into our internal roadmap. However, we do believe that this list represents a lot of potentially beneficial improvements to Upwell Structures and we really want to see what you folks in the community think about the relative importance of different changes. We encourage you to fill out the survey and we want to thank all participants in advance.	Thanks for joining us for this dev blog today, and we hope that all of you will be able to find time to complete the survey so we can incorporate your feedback into our prioritization! Now that we’ve discussed the wider world of Upwell Structure features, the sister dev blog in this one will drill down (pun intended) on the next set of Upwell Structures in development: Refineries. These new structures will be the one-stop shops for resource collection and processing in New Eden, and will usher in major changes to moon harvesting and reactions as well as providing the cluster’s best reprocessing services. You can check out that blog here.	We welcome community feedback on the contents of both of today’s dev blogs. You can get in touch with the members of Team Five O on the official forums as well as social media and in person at Fanfest! EVE Online is a constantly growing and evolving work of science fiction and the community is absolutely crucial to choosing its direction.
