(click image to enlarge)

The last thing to mention here is that, for our first release, we will use the notification system for contact log on/log off, skill training related events, and all notifications currently sent to the notifications tab in EVE mail. More on this in a second.

BETA OPT-IN!

We here on Team Lopapeysa are not only excited about the feature itself, but also the way we get to release it. Rather than pushing back a release to allow time for us to tune and polish based only on feedback from testers on Singularity, we are going to ship it to Tranquility and give you the option of turning it on. There’s a few great things about doing it this way:

We will (hopefully) get a lot more exposure than we would on Singularity which means more feedback
Players choosing to try the feature will be getting realistic amounts and types of notifications so their feedback and our data will be more accurate and informative
If there’s anything wrong with the feature, we don’t have to worry about it negatively affecting the entire player base before we get a chance to make changes (hello tooltips)
So, after Oceanus has launched, if you want to try the new notifications (and we would really appreciate if you did), just open the ‘general’ tab in the ESC menu and click the box to activate new notifications.


(click image to enlarge)

THE FUTURE

In this iteration we hope to have all the basic functionality of the feature established and have some of the most essential notification types included, but we won’t stop here.  In follow-up releases we expect to add more notification types to this system, including but not limited to: industry job notifications, combat log events (killmails, not damage logs) and potentially various kinds of invites (convo, fleet, corp etc) and of course NPE notifications.   We will also make changes based on your feedback to improve the feature overall, as always.

So tick that box and give notifications a try!  Thanks for reading!

@CCP_Rise for Team Boiled Cod, over and out.