By manually verifying the certificate of the web resource you are connected to you can check if the certificate is valid for the domain it is used on and if it has actually not expired yet.

Following these recommendations you can reduce the risk of getting your credentials and therefore your virtual identity stolen. Also, we encourage you to report any misleading, bogus or questionable usage of our SSO to security@ccpgames.com.

SSO LIMITED TRIAL
Back in the middle of May we opened sign-ups to everyone (thread can be found here) for a trial of the EVE SSO. Since then we have chosen some web sites to take part in this trial and have given them the information they need to begin using the SSO. While the trial is limited to a small number of web sites we have put the documentation up for everyone to see and you can find that here.

The first phase of the SSO trial is complete and was simply to share the documentation and process of using the SSO with trial participants. This resulted in some great feedback, based on which some changes to the SSO were made. We are now going forward with phase two, giving the trial participant’s access to the SSO on the Singularity server (Sisi) only. That has happened and they have begun integrating the SSO into their web sites. This will continue through the month of July with only access to Sisi and so long as everything goes well in August we will give those same web sites access to the SSO on Tranquility. After that our goal is to open up the SSO to anyone who wants to use it. We do not however have a time frame on that yet as we want to make sure we do this right.

The web sites participating in the SSO trial are:

DOTLAN
EVE Board
EVE Ping
Fleet-Up
Fuzzwork
MY-EVE
Osmium
Timerboard
Tripwire
zKillboard
Due to the SSO only being on Sisi right now you probably won’t see it showing up on the participants main site right away, but those are the web sites you can expect to start seeing the SSO on for now.

We want to give a huge shout out to those participating in this trial. Their feedback has been wonderful and the effort they are clearly willing to put into this is awesome.

This security advisory brought to you by,
CCP FoxFour (@regnerba) and CCP Bugartist (@CCP_Bugartist)