(click to enlarge)

We realize it’s a big change, so to make sure we get enough feedback from you, we will bring the new look to Singularity today so that you can see it in action and help us make sure all the functionality you need still works well with the new look. Read ahead for more on the background and our vision for this project, and how you can give us feedback!

BACKGROUND
Even though we feel we‘ve really picked up pace with various quality-of-life interface fixes  and improvements throughout the last few years, as well as raising the bar quite a bit with usability and visual intrigue of new features, we have never attempted to do an overhaul of the look and feel of the UI as a whole. That is, until now.

It all started with a project called EVE UI Modernization. The UI Group came together in an Icelandic summer hut way up north (beyond the wall) to define a vision for a new and better EVE UI. In that effort we asked ourselves what “better” means and found out it was a combination of many components that all had to come together in a holistic way. The group came up with a strategy to push the UI into a direction of having a better identity, better functionality, better usability and better aesthetics.

The first efforts where Initially kicked off by a couple of individuals on the UI Team as conceptual work and has been ongoing behind the scenes for quite a while now  and has recently been adapted by Game of Drones to push it all the way to Tranquility with ongoing support from other UI developers.

THE GOALS
For the sake of clarity, I have prepared a list of the goals we set out to reach with the UI Modernization effort.

Roll out a complete new UI that will define the visual direction for EVE UI in the coming years
Less operating system, more Sci-Fi, and militaristic looking UI
Functionality and usability should feel modern and intuitive
Have the UI complement the beautiful New Eden view, instead of blocking it.
Better consistency between UI control look and feel.
Use colors in a sensible way.
Simpler, and more recognizable icons with a clear distinction between icons that represent items vs icons that represent UI controls and labels.
Now, let me explain a bit further.

LOOK AND FEEL
Our UI designers didn’t have to meet for long to reach a consensus that they wanted the UI to look more holographic and futuristic than it currently does. For interacting with the UI, instead of using skeuomorphism (a word I’m pretty sure to have been invented by a certain fruit company that shall not be named here) such as having a button feel like an actual button when pressed, we want to use burning light and glow to indicate button presses, blinks and such. Here is a part of their vision statement for the EVE UI Modernization project:

Everything is made from light and behaves similar to light. Objects are dim and darkened or de-saturated when off/inactive instead of just alpha faded. Objects flicker and offset when under damage, power out, power disruption. Objects are drawn in, they turn on and flicker slightly to immitate a more realistic, mechanical state. Retro references used by the group was things like Jet HUDs, LED gauges, oscilloscope / vector scope, lasers, spectrum analyzers in 70‘s stereos.

