Braving these Unidentified Wormholes grants access to new wormhole systems that include system-wide effects commonly found in other wormhole systems, shattered planets, and various sites that build upon the existing Drifter mysteries and tell some tales of old.

Capsuleers have also been encountering larger, named Drifter sites which encourage group cooperation and timing to unlock their deepest secrets.

It’s no surprise that the Drifter and Circadian Seeker presence in these systems is high and reports of a new, previously un-encountered Drifter called the Hikanta Tyrannos have been surfacing.

Whatever secrets the Drifter sites hold, it appears to be worth defending. And worth assaulting, as since the Antikythera Element was first discovered, Capsuleer abilities have been enhanced with the appearance of the Entosis Link.

Drifter Recap

During the Rhea release, shortly after the discovery of Caroline’s Star, capsuleers stumbled upon a cloaked structure surrounded by huge lightning clouds.  This structure seems to be of Jove origin and was visited by previously unseen scout drones called the Circadian Seekers.



Little is known of the origin of these drones, but their appearance triggered a cascading series of events in New Eden.  They are very passive drones and their main objective seems to be exploring systems and scanning everything they come in contact with, but they were particularly drawn to the cloaked structures.

During the Proteus release, the Circadian Seekers became slightly more hostile and territorial.  If players tried to attack them, they would not only retaliate but also call reinforcements.  They really did not want to be disturbed… but what were they trying to find?

Tiamat was the first release where the massive structures uncloaked.  It was revealed that they are Jove Listening Posts and had been there for potentially thousands of years, secretly watching us. 

Also, with the uncloaking of the Jove Observatory came a very hostile force.  The Drifters appeared in New Eden. We know they are of Jove Ancestry and they are working with the Circadian Seekers.  



The Drifters are very hostile towards anyone who approaches the Jove Observatories and if players retaliate they have to face the Drifter superweapon; a weapon of unknown origin that does incredible amounts of omni damage.  They are a very dangerous force and extreme caution is advised, as seen in this Scope video.

