
CCP Affinity:

This has been a great year! I had so much fun at Fanfest, Vegas and the LA player meet I had the opportunity to attend.  I got to meet so many awesome players and chat about where we should take PvE in the future.  My favourite part of 2015 has been involving players so much more in storyline.  Storyline in EVE has taken a crazy, awesome turn this year and that is thanks to each and every one of you!  From participating in events, coming up with crazy theories on who the Drifters are, creating podcasts and blogs, participating in the Amarr Championships. I am so thankful for each and every one of you and the enthusiasm you put in to the lore and your help in taking storyline to the next level. 



CCP Falcon:

It’s difficult to know where to start when talking about all the cool stuff that’s happened over the course of 2015. From having the privilege to continue to be part of the storyline team and work on making it a whole lot more interactive for our players, through to all the awesome player gatherings and events we’ve seen this year, it’s just been one hell of a ride overall.

I think for me a few of the things that stand out are a great Fanfest with some amazing entries to the cosplay contest, the return of the Amarr Championships, Alliance Tournament XIII and all the meta and drama that surrounded it, and of course seeing the o7 show really take on a life of its own.

We also had the biggest EVE Vegas ever (holy shit, it was huge this year!), an incredible EVEsterdam, hosted by the wonderful Dierdra Vaal, and a rock solid return for EVE Down Under (I gotta get myself over there one year!).

I’ve also enjoyed watching the community evolve over the course of the last year too, with more video production, kick ass artwork, and of course the annual Pod & Planet fiction contest! While there’s been a few bumps in the road this year, I’m looking forward to seeing where we go in 2016 as the community matures and grows more.

We’ve seen some amazing charity initiatives this year from Care4Kids through to Broadcast 4 Reps, and the community has raised a healthy sum for charity through both player organized funding drives, and those held at EVE Vegas and Fanfest 2015.

I’m incredibly proud of what the EVE Community have achieved over the course of the last 12 months, and I love writing these end of year blogs because although it can be pretty challenging at times, I feel like leading the community effort for CCP is pretty much the best job out there.

Also, a special nod to the wonderful citizens of the /r/eve community and the glorious community over at #tweetfleet, you guys will always have a special place in my heart, and have kept me entertained to no end over the course of the last year!

PLEX for GOOD:


