Sion Kumitomo

This review comes at an interesting point in the term. By this time, particularly given that I’m running again, I should have a string of accomplishments that I could hang my name off of, but I don’t. I should have the dedicated enthusiasm required to stay active for the entire term, but I don’t. I should have platitudes to offer and abounding praises. I certainly don’t have those. Instead, I find that I’m deeply frustrated and increasingly having to defend an institution in which I struggle to believe.

There will no doubt be council members who sing CCP’s praise and proclaim the efficacy of the CSM. Broadly speaking, I don’t know how any of them could get to that conclusion via any evidenced based rationale. The new release pace frequently means that the CSM is cut out of the development feedback process, sometimes nearly entirely. There’s a growing list of items, some major, that we saw at the same time the rest of the player base did.

When the CSM attempted to get looped into the new development model better, we sometimes started seeing items one day, perhaps two, before they were released. Even something as major as the 0.0 revamp has been a dead topic since the last summit. This is all the more frustrating because after the scuffle erupted from the CSM's name being used to promote changes we didn't endorse, we had a meeting where we were assured that we would be kept in the loop.

Actions speak louder than words. The shared Skype channel is frequently home to all manner of defensive, passive aggressive, or antagonistic exchanges.

All of this makes it very difficult to work as the institution should. Some EVE pundits will say that the CSM is a toothless institution that CCP uses when convenient or as a marketing tool, and nothing more. There's some truth to that. The CSM was designed around a titled system with a Chair and two releases per year. The institution hasn't adapted, and its relevance, such as it was, has suffered because of it.

Part of this is the CSM's fault. It wasn't until we hit a couple days before a recent release and collectively realized that we didn't have any idea what it was going to contain that we looked around and took stock of where we were. Though there are some bright spots, the overall outlook isn't positive. The CSM should have realized this sooner, and we should have been more insistent on being given the access we require to fill the role we were elected to fill. The situation is also not helped by members of the CSM who are afk to the point of uselessness.

Part of this is CCP's fault. While I recognize that they are busy meeting the demands of the new release schedule, to be a perpetual afterthought does somewhat sap the enthusiasm of even the most ardent public servant, and it is difficult to engage when there is nothing with which to engage. In some cases, the CSM has been specifically sidelined. In other cases, the CSM has been treated as an enemy, something to deal with if necessary but otherwise best ignored.

The reason this is so is because, broadly speaking, CCP does not handle criticism well. There have been instances where CSM members have offered appallingly uncalled-for and highly unprofessional input and critiques. But well reasoned counter-arguments and constructive criticism that doesn't match devthink is frequently taken as a personal affront as well.

This is fine as long as everyone agrees, but over the course of even this term, everyone agreeing on everything is an impossibility. With short one-year terms and no compelling reason to engage with the CSM, this means that ignoring the CSM or members of the CSM is entirely viable.

CCP Falcon and CCP Leeloo have been tremendous. They have waged many battles on the CSM's behalf, and it is in them that the hope of institution is vested. If it weren't for them, their hard work, dedication, and patience, I would have given up long ago and certainly wouldn't be standing for re-election. The CSM itself and various individual members have accomplished goals and played an important role in a few key situations. There is thus still cause to try and push for change.

So instead of giving up, I've been attempting to reform the organization. I don't like organizational inefficiencies, and if CCP isn't going to talk to me about my other specialty areas, I figure reform attempts are the best way to remain engaged. The CSM would, if used correctly, be an incredible asset. The problem is that there are certain institutional and attitudinal blocks that prevent the CSM from reaching its potential. Some CSM side, some CCP side. To date, I've had very little success in this regard, in no small part due to only recently realizing the magnitude of the issue. It also likely hasn't helped that I call things like I see them.

So that's what I've been doing. I spent the first half of my term trying to illuminate player psychology from my unique position, and I spent the rest of it trying to figure out how to get the CSM and CCP in a place where such input from myself and others on various topics wouldn't be summarily dismissed out of hand.

I don't think pretty little lies or carefully constructed facades do the CSM or CCP any service. If the institution is to properly evolve, we're going to have to take a hard look at some uncomfortable truths and try to figure out how to address them.

At the end of the day, the CSM and CCP aspire to the same goals. These are a robust game and a vibrant community. If we can ever work well together, the whole will assuredly be greater than the sum of the parts. It may not be possible, but the potential gains make it worth attempting.

