The 3D Preview screen (accessed by clicking on the image icon in the Show Info window) will contain a copy of the left sidebar available in the fitting window. This sidebar will function exactly the same as the fitting window, with all of the purchasing and linking options. Because it can be of any ship, the 3D preview window will also allow you to preview and purchase any SKIN on any ship. 3D previews for specific SKINs are also linked from the show info window of a specific SKIN item. Simply find the SKIN item through in the market, or linked from the SKINs tab of the show info window for the desired ship. Then click on the hexagonal SKIN icon in the upper left to bring up the 3D preview.

THE CHARACTER SHEET


The character sheet has been updated with a new SKINs section on the sidebar. This section will show you all the potentially available SKINs in the game, and all of the SKINs you currently own, with a countdown visible for time-limited SKINs. In this section, SKINs are divided in to factions/designer categories, allowing you to see the size of your collection both overall, and for a certain faction/designer.

CONVERSION AND NEW SKIN PLANS
The general conversion plans will give you a SKIN if you had a Blueprint perviously, or a SKIN and base ship if you had a skinned ship. If you do not have the ship at the time of conversion (ex. you sold it or it was blown up) you will not receive a SKIN. The conversion process is as follows:

Skinned ships will become a base version of the same and a SKIN item for that skin will be added to the owning players redeeming queue. For example: If you have a Megathron Quafe Edition you will get a standard Megathron in the same location as the original, and 1 Megathron Quafe SKIN (Permanent) item placed in your redeeming queue.
Skin Blueprints will become a number of SKINs equal to the number or runs remaining on the blueprint. They will all be placed in the redeeming queue. For example: If you have an Abaddon Tash-Murkon Edition 10 Run Blueprint you will receive 10 Abaddon Tash-Murkon SKIN (Permanent) items in your redeeming queue.
Skinned Ships and blueprints which are located in a corporation owned location will find the new SKINs in their HQ deliveries hangar. Ships will not move.
Skin blueprints that drop in game will become time-limited SKINs that last 30 days once activated.
Pirate ships which are skinned through blueprints that drop in-game (4 destroyers, 4 battlecruisers) will become the base ship and 1 time-limited version of the SKIN.
Any special edition ships or BPCs in the market or contracts will be cancelled and refunded the ISK it cost to put them up. The ships and BPC's will then be converted over as normal.
Codes and referral packs which reference ship skins, or skin items in your redeeming queue will provide a copy of the SKIN equivalent when redeemed.
Ship skins BPCs in your redeeming queue will be converted into SKINs in your redeeming queue.
Any SKINs in general, which are given to you under this conversion will be put in your redeeming queue.
As a way to reward early adopters of the Ship Paint Pilot Program, and in preparation for the new SKIN system release, all existing skin Blueprints will no longer be purchasable from the NES as of the publication of this dev blog.

CONVERSION LIST
The following existing ships will be converted to the new SKIN system:

ClassRaceExisting ItemNew SkinPrice / AquisitionPreview
As an addendum, there are a few ships we would like to convert over in the future, and will be doing so in subsequent releases.

The Rattlesnake Victory Edition has some technical issues with the underlying model, but once those are sorted it will be converted to a SKIN.
The Capsule - Genolution 'Auroral' 197-variant is currently created from an implant (Genolution 'Auroral' AU-79) in a very specific and roundabout way. This will be removed in the future in favor of standardizing it with the rest of the ships as a capsule SKIN.
NEW SHIP SKINS COMING TO THE NEW EDEN STORE
Below is a list of all new SKINs which will be added to New Eden. All of the SKINs below will be available for purchase from the NES and can be resold on the market. If you are interested in purchasing Aurum in order to purchase SKINs from the NES, this can be done from the account management website.

ClassRaceSkinPricePreview
FAQ
We would like to address some common questions which have been asked over the course of developing the SKINS feature:

Q) Why is there a lack of Caldari and Minmatar SKIN options?
A) It will require a little more time in order to address the disparity between the Amarr and Gallente versus the Caldari and Minmatar ship SKIN lines. We are aware of it and are working towards a state of greater parity.

Q) Does the skin for a T1 ship also apply to any T2 variants?
A) Unless the SKIN item specifically mentions it affects multiple ships it will only affect the ship hulls stated on the item. Therefore a Rifter Nefantar SKIN (Permanent) item will only work on a Rifter, not a Jaguar or Wolf for instance.

Q) Will SKINs follow a character if it is traded to another account?
A) Yes. Like skills, SKINs will transfer when you purchase a character from the Character Bazaar.

Q) Will the SKINs I have active be exposed in the API?
A) Yes, we plan on making that information available from the API, however it will not be available on launch.

Q) Will the active SKIN on a ship be shown in Killmails?
A) On initial release we will not be recording the active SKIN for a ship when it is destroyed. However, we do realize the rich tradition of celebrating the loss of something shiny and it is on our list for further developments in the future.

Thank you for taking the not-insubstantial time to read this dev blog, and remember to fly safe! (Especially with those skinned ships!)

See you in the comments section for this blog.

CCP Terminus on behalf of Team Size Matters
@CCP_Terminus