Example 2:

The Alluring Baguette Syndicate™ is a large alliance that just deployed a Citadel XL structure in null security space with a 21 hours of weekly vulnerability window (they have full occupancy and indexes). Confident of its manpower and general resources, the structure owner sets the vulnerability window to cover 3 hours each day of the week.


Current numbers for the weekly vulnerability window are set as follows and varies based on location or occupancy. Those numbers will most likely change with time.

M

L

XL

High-sec, low-sec, Null-sec with full occupancy

3 hours

6 hours

21 hours

Wormhole space

6 hours

12 hours

42 hours

Null-sec without occupancy

12 hours

24 hours

84 hours

REINFORCED 1, 2, AND 3
Structures that are successfully attacked through entosis links during their vulnerability windows go into an invulnerable mode for a specific amount of time, at the end of which another vulnerability window may occur.

Reinforcement periods exist to pause the assault and give both attacking and defending parties time to prepare for the next phase, especially if they do not operate within the same timezones.

They also serve to give penalties to the structure owner. A structure entering its first reinforcement window cannot have its fittings altered – players will still be able to refuel its various bays, fit ammunition to the various defense systems or take items in or out of its hangars, but will unable to add, remove or change fitted structure modules in any way. A structure entering its second reinforcement window will cause all industry jobs to be paused and services to go offline on top of the previous penalty. Those penalties will exist until the structure goes back into its normal operation mode (thus until defenders successfully entosis it).

Reinforcement will not require Strontium Clathrates to operate, and will be a functionality that’s always available on all structures for free.
Reinforcement timers last for a specific amount of vulnerability hours:

Unlike existing Starbase reinforcement timers, those reinforcement timers are based on vulnerability hours to operate. This is to ensure the reinforcement timer always ends during a vulnerability window, when defenders are online and committed to defend it.
Reinforcement duration may change depending on the structure type and size – larger structures may have a reinforcement timer set to half the vulnerability window, while smaller ones may have longer reinforcement timers to give owners more time to react.
Example:

The Mighty Bouillabaisse Conglomerate™ has a Citadel XL structure in null-security space, with full occupancy and indexes. The vulnerability window thus lasts 21 hours a week, which has been assigned by the structure owner (yellow duration below).
If a party attacks the structure with an entosis link during the vulnerability window at 15 GMT on Saturday (red box below), the reinforcement timer, which lasts 15 vulnerability hours, will end at 20 GMT on the following Tuesday (green part below).
The Citadel XL structure will thus enter its second vulnerability window at 20 GMT, next Tuesday after the initial attack. When the structure goes into reinforcement, the timer will display that date for everyone instead of doing complex math with vulnerability hours.

