
Sovereignty structures belonging to Alliances that have not chosen a default vulnerability timer will have their vulnerability windows automatically centered on 11:00 EVE Time (downtime).

SOV STRUCTURE DEPLOYMENT PROCESS
For those players who have not yet had a chance to try out the new system on the Duality test server, we also want to go over some of the details around deploying structures in the new system. This information can also be found in the show-info window for the Sov structures, but we want to make sure the maximum number of people see it.

In the new Sovereignty system we are largely doing away with the launch/anchor/online process inherent in the older style of EVE structures. Instead, TCUs and IHubs will use the newer spacecomponent deployment system, and will feel quite similar to the mobile structures introduced in recent years.

Both TCUs and IHubs will now need to be deployed at planets. Their location restrictions will actually mirror those of Customs Offices. They must be no closer than 350km from the planet and no further than the distance from the planet to the warpin point plus 1000km. Existing TCUs will be grandfathered in and won’t need to be moved, but any newly deployed TCUs will now need to be placed at planets.

Only one TCU and one IHub may exist in space in each system at one time. This means that if there is already a copy of that structure somewhere in the system you will receive an error when you attempt to launch your structure. Both TCUs and IHubs are now globally visible on overviews everywhere in the system, so you’ll never have trouble finding existing sov structures.

Only characters that belong to an Alliance will be able to deploy a TCU and/or IHub, although no corporation roles will be required.

You may deploy the TCU or IHub through the right click menu, radial menu, or by simply dragging the structure from your inventory into space. Once deployed into space, the TCU or IHub will exist in a neutral state, owned by the Secure Commerce Commission NPC corp. To complete the claim process you must activate an Entosis Link on the neutral structure to capture it for your Alliance. This means that the process of getting an active TCU or IHub into space will be much faster under the new system (total time will be about 12-15 minutes instead of 2-8 hours under the old system). However the process now requires that ships remain on grid for those minutes and other players can challenge your claim and attempt to capture the structure themselves.

When TCUs and IHubs are first launched into space, they will automatically find an appropriate location nearby to anchor themselves. They will always deploy on a spot at the center of a grid (in the same way that starbases deploy to the center of the grid when anchored) to reduce the chance of grid conflicts near the structure. They will also automatically find another suitable nearby location if their first location overlaps with ships or other items. This means that when a TCU or IHub launches it may appear quite a ways away from the ship that launched it.

The deployment process of Outposts will remain largely the same for this release. Deploying a new Outpost will still require your Alliance to have an active TCU in the system, and the outpost creation process will still require the same platform filling procedure. Team Game of Drones is hard at work on the system that will replace this process in the future.

Once you have successfully captured the Sovereignty structure, ownership will transfer to the executor corporation of your Alliance. Infrastructure Hubs will create a new maintenance bill for the executor corp, with a 24 hour grace period before the first payment is required. TCUs will no longer have any bills under the new system. If bills for Infrastructure Hubs expire before they are paid, the structure will automatically self-destruct. Directors in the corporation that own the structure (executor corp for newly claimed/captured structures) can transfer ownership to other corporations within their alliance using the right click menu on the structure when there are no outstanding bills.

When a corporation leaves an Alliance, all Sovereignty structures belonging to that corporation will transfer their ownership to the executor corporation.

To ensure that anyone starting a Sovereignty capture event will also be able to complete the process, characters must be in a valid capsuleer Alliance in order to activate an Entosis link directly onto a TCU, IHub or Station. This restriction does not apply to Station Services.

CREST AND API DATA FOR THIRD PARTY APPLICATIONS
We know that many of you will be eager to make amazing third party applications and websites, either for public use or for your own Alliances. That’s why we are opening up the new Sovereignty system to Public CREST. Everyone will be able to access a public list of all active Sovereignty structures in the universe, all details about reinforcement timers and the scores of active capture events. They will also have access to capital systems and default vulnerability timers for every Alliance. Finally, the XML API will contain the notifications triggered whenever Sov structures are attacked.

All the details on these Public CREST exposures can be found in CCP Foxfour’s developer blog here.

DUALITY PLAYTEST
For the past few weeks we have opened the Duality test server with an in-development version of the new sov system so that players could try it out and help us refine the user experience and find bugs. We also put together a playtest competition in which Alliances could fight over Sovereignty of a region to gain bragging rights and cosmetic rewards. We want to express our thanks to every player who has taken the time to log onto Duality and help submit bug reports and feedback on the new system. You’ve all been a huge amount of help.

We want to congratulate all the Alliances who fought for Providence on Duality over this last month.

The final score for each alliance is obtained by adding one point for each of the three core Sovereignty structures (TCU, IHub, and Station) that they control within the competition area.

Fourteen alliances entered the competition and were each given a starting constellation within Providence or Catch. When all was said and done five alliances remained.

Every alliance that participated in the playtest will have their name added to the description of the Entosis Link I blueprint original, as notable capsuleer alliances that led the way in discovering visionary applications of the new technology.

The final scores are:

Pandemic Legion: 198
Spectre Fleet Alliance: 40
No Not Believing: 35
Affirmative.: 22
Fidelas Constans: 7

In a future release we will be listing all the competing alliances in the description of the Entosis Link I BPO, with a special mention for PL as the most successful testers.

We have also drawn four of these five alliances for another special honor, having meta variations of the Entosis Link named after them. The winners of this draw were selected with Chribba’s dice. All the details on how this selection process was executed can be found in this forum post.

The default naming convention for the new Entosis Link variations will be to include the alliance ticker of the winning alliances as the “flavor” name. We will be open to considering alternate suggestions from the winning alliances, but those suggestions will be subject to approval by CCP’s development team and will only be accepted if we determine that the names fit into the EVE universe. Direct references to other intellectual property will not be accepted for obvious reasons. You know who you are.

The alliances drawn for the module naming are:

Pandemic Legion, Spectre Fleet, No Not Believing, and Affirmative.

We’ll be in touch with your team captains and alliance executors to discuss the details.

Thanks once again to everyone who participated on Duality so far, and remember that Duality remains open for people to keep trying out the new system right up until release.

Thanks for taking the time to read this update blog, and I hope it’s been informative. We’ll be continuing our communication over the next week as we prepare to launch this huge revamp of EVE’s Sovereignty capture system on July 14th. We have one more blog full of announcements coming later this week, and after release we will be continuing our iteration on Nullsec and Sovereignty with help from your feedback. Huge thanks to everyone who has provided us with your feedback so far!

From all of us at Team Five 0 and Team Pirate Unicorns, fly safe!