
Rides of the Valkyries

We were able to secure work in progress concept art from CCP’s upcoming VR dogfighting shooter EVE: Valkyrie, fresh from our development team in sunny Newcastle. Valkyrie adds yet another dimension to New Eden, the world's largest living work of science fiction, and we are excited to share glimpses of it with you.


 

The Standard Hardcover and Kindle Edition – Open for Pre-orders

This book will be released in three different editions. First, there’s the hardcover. This is the book that you would find on Amazon.com or at Barnes & Noble or Forbidden Planet. It’s beautifully printed, solid and affordable, at $39.99 (and even lower at some places). There’s also an e-book edition, available at various online retailers.

Launch dates:

25  March - Brick and mortar comic book retailers and online at Things from Another World ( Dark Horse’s site )
7 April - Brick and mortar bookstores and other online stores such as Amazon.com , Amazon.co.uk, Amazon.de.
The Uber-Limited edition

Now this Limited Edition is quite something. It comes in 2001 units, which is not a lot. EVE: Source’s Limited Edition came out in 1400 units and sold out in less than 7 hours and it didn’t have as many pretty pictures as this one.  Come to think of it, we should have done more than 2001 units. But then it wouldn’t have been limited. Ah, the dilemmas of our age!

Check it out:



Bound in white, non-animal-suffering-faux-leather, it comes in a custom sleeve and is loaded with beautiful lithographs. The lithos are signed if you are one of the lucky first 1000 who makes an order. It also contains an anodized aluminum commemorative plaque featuring our home away from home, Jita 4-4. The plaque has a code that redeems for special in-game items to wear, in the same theme as the book itself. And it’s nice. It comes in a solid white protective case . It also is exactly the same size as the EVE: Source limited edition, so if you have that one, this one fits right in next to it!

Fancy threadz

We added a redeemable code to the limited edtion, that will give you these shiny clothes, to slip into as you flip through the pages.

