
CCP Seagull:

My favorite thing this year has been all the passion people put in arguing with us over what EVE should be. I find it’s an enormous privilege to get to co-create this science fiction universe with people who care so much about it. To all of you who have chimed this year and given us your opinion, thank you for playing and thank you for making EVE with us. Happy holidays and see you all in 2016!



CCP Manifest:

Some of my favorite memories of the past year have been seeing a big rise in player-made EVE videos and their complexity, storytelling, and artistry—whether corp commercials, propaganda pieces, battle recordings, solo pvp vids or any of the other hundreds of awesome vids. 

I definitely had one of those wow moments with one in particular:  Scott Manley’s “EVE Online VR Video – The Ships and Factions of New Eden”. It captures the majesty of the factions on an epic scale and shows the ingenuity of EVE players and what they can do with even the barest of tools – in this case EVE Probe. Plus it’s a great overview of the New Eden landscape, very well written and produced, and a FREAKING 360 VIDEO, which is super cool to show people on your phone when they ask about internet spaceships.



CCP Punkturis:

Meeting chillbros from EVE Online is absolutely my favorite part of being an EVE Online developer. I was lucky enough this year to attend EVE Nottingham, EVE Fanfest and EVE Vegas where I got to meet so many people from different places and live their enthusiasm and love for our game. Words cannot describe how rewarding this is for me and how much it encourages me to work harder on the game. I very much look forward to meet everyone again in 2016 <3



CCP Mimic:

I am continuously surprised by the generosity of this Community and astounded that such ruthless players in-game are in fact the most caring and thoughtful people out of game. So many great player-driven movements and mini-communities exist, but one that has really stood out for me this year is the Care4Kids movement started by C4w3.

Hearing regularly about their progress from just a simple idea to pass the time in hospital, to full-blown Non-Profit Organization status and hearing about all the external media coverage they have been receiving in Sweden has been fantastic. The support from the EVE Community has been no less awe-inspiring and one of my personal favorites of the contributions players have made, are the coloring-book additions created by Rixx Javix.

Such a great addition to help these kids feel a little bit better and be introduced to the amazing EVE Online Community that all of our wonderful players have created. More can be seen here.

