After watching the latest video blog from CCP Seagull and starting to put together this blog, I also took a look back and charted my own journey with EVE, surprised at what I found and the sheer amount of nostalgia that came back as I retraced that journey and remembered all the events I’ve either been part of or have witnessed as a player in EVE over the last thirteen years.

From the Great Northern War to the blockade of Mara by m0o corp, the Zombies smartbomb attack on Yulai, the Rise and fall of NVA, CFS, Stain Alliance, Ascendant Frontier, Fountain Alliance, Xetic Federation, Curse Alliance, and many more.

The collapse of Band of Brothers, the advance then retreat of Red Alliance, the rise of GoonSwarm and their eventual collapse, only to be reformed again, all of these are stories that were written by the actions and aspirations of pilots in New Eden.

The list really does go on, in no particular order, with the loss of the first titan, affectionately named “Steve”, the rise of the Interstellar Starbase Syndicate, then their execution at the hands of a coalition of angry alliances lead by the Interstellar Alcohol Conglomerate when their neutrality was called into question.



The war for Providence that saw Ushra’Khan ousted from Unity Station in 9UY4-H, the Battle of Asakai, the Bloodbath of B-R5RB, and more recently the battle of M-0EE8 as the Moneybadger Coalition was formed and the collapse of Mercenary Coalition, who also recently reformed and returned to the fold.

These are all stories of political intrigue, conflict, betrayal, teamwork, loyalty and in some instances cluster wide war that have been crafted by the actions and interactions of our community, which form the very fabric of the living work of Science Fiction that is New Eden.

And so we come to 2016, with thirteen years of history behind us, and who knows how many stories yet to be told. Conflict continues to rage across New Eden, with more and more tools placed in the hands of our intrepid pilots each release to assist them with continuing to build their own empires.

From the simple miner who’s happy to spend their time seeking out and harvesting resources to fuel New Eden’s cycle of creation and destruction, to the coalition leader who commands fleets of thousands on a whim, we want to make sure we continue to expand and enhance the opportunities our pilots have to continue to create these amazing stories.

As we showed at Fanfest 2016… here’s a quick rundown of the last year in terms of features and content that have been added to New Eden: