
The Hardware browsers helps players find and discover modules available on the market and easily preview how they impact the hull by simply hovering the mouse over them. When a module is previewed, the stats in the fitting window are updated and colored green or red, depending on whether the change is positive or negative.



At the top of the browser there are several filters that will help you narrow down your options when searching for equipment for your hull. Some of them are rather self-explanatory, but other could do with bit of explanation

Low slots
Mid slots
High slots
Rigs slots
Drones
Hull restrictions
Using this filter will filter out all equipment that for some reason or another is not allowed on your hull
This filter is on by default, helping narrow down the options for the hull you are working on
Resources
Filters out modules based on their CPU, powergrid and calibration requirements. This filter relies on simulating each of the modules to get accurate values, and is therefore only available while in simulation mode. The first time it runs, it may take a few seconds to complete, but after that it should be near instant until hull, rigs or skills change.
This filter has 2 modes: Total resources and remaining resources, and you can switch between the modes through a right click option.
Total resources (default): Filters out all modules that given current rigs and skills, will never function on the hull you are working on. This will help filter out modules that you can fit, but don't have enough CPU or powergrid output on the hull to ever online.
Remaining resources: Filters out any module that requires more CPU, powergrid or calibration than the simulated hull has available, based on its current fit. This should help out when you're designing a tight fit.
Skills
When on, it will filter out all the equipment you do not have the skills to use. While in an Alpha clone state, this will filter out any modules that require Omega state
.

DRONES, FIGHTERS AND CARGO ITEMS
Once in simulation mode, Drones can be added to a fit, either by double clicking them in the module browser or by dragging them to the drone icon on the lower left side of the ship in the center. To add more than one drone, you can hold down Shift when dragging a drone to the drone icon to get a pop up to specify how many you are adding or alternatively modify the number of drones after they are added by clicking on the quantity text of the drone.

When drones have been added, they can be marked as being active by clicking on the drone icon, and check the checkboxes on each of the drone types. This allows you to see how your damage output changes with different drones. We have also added a tooltip to each of the drone types, give you important information about the drone, taking your skills into account.

