
6 Highslots
3 Midslots
6 Lowslots

Amarr Cruiser bonuses (per skill level):
35% bonus to Energy Nosferatu optimal range and falloff
20% bonus to Energy Nosferatu drain amount

Minmatar Cruiser bonuses (per skill level):
20% bonus to Logistic Drone transfer amount
20% reduction in Cloaking Devices CPU requirement

Logistics Cruisers bonuses (per skill level):
20% bonus to Remote Armor Repairer optimal and falloff
15% reduction in Remote Armor Repairer activation cost
2% reduction in Remote Armor Repairer cycle time

Role bonus:
80% reduction in Remote Armor Repairer powergrid requirements
100% bonus to Remote Armor Repairer optimal and falloff
Can fit Covert Ops Cloaking Device and Covert Cynosural Field Generator
Energy Nosferatu fitted to this ship will drain targeted ship's capacitor regardless of your own capacitor level

Alliance Tournament Edition Blood Raider SKIN
As with Alliance Tournament XIII, we will be offering a ship SKIN that can be applied to any of the Blood Raider ships to give them a unique visual style. We will be awarding 10 copies of this SKIN for each series won by a team. This includes the single match series that make up the bulk of the tournament. This should provide an additional incentive to try and win every match you can. Again like last year, these skins will be handed out later than the rest of the prizes at a yet to be determined date.

THE DRAW DECIDED
This year a total of 92 valid entries were received. Of those, 12 were from teams in the previous year buying in directly, and 80 were entries into the random draw.
Congratulations to those that were drawn, and good luck in the secret auction to those that were not. If you wish to see the video of the draw being performed, you can find it here.

SECRETS AND AUCTIONS
As the draw has now concluded, we move on to the Secret Auction. Beginning tomorrow, 27th of July after downtime, the remaining teams that were not selected in the draw may have either their Alliance Executor or Team Captain EVEmail CCP Logibro a PLEX bid. The minimum bid is 5 PLEX. The same character that mailed the bid must also place the same number of PLEX in the redeeming system. All bids must be submitted before downtime on the 29th of July. Any bid without the respective number of PLEX in the redeeming system at the close of the auction will be considered invalid.

WELCOME TO THE AT, I’LL BE YOUR GUIDE
This year, we have again selected 4 player commentators to help guide you through the tournament.

//image.eveonline.com/Character/1715821878_200.jpg

Chessur

//image.eveonline.com/Character/91418572_200.jpg

Zarvox Toral

//image.eveonline.com/Character/91738354_200.jpg

Mawderator

Character portrait

Gorion Wassenar

//image.eveonline.com/Character/1715821878_200.jpg

Chessur

//image.eveonline.com/Character/91418572_200.jpg

Zarvox Toral

//image.eveonline.com/Character/91738354_200.jpg

Mawderator

Character portrait

Gorion Wassenar

Congratulations to those chosen, and a big thank you to those others that applied.

RULE UPDATES
We’ve also made a few changes to the rules since their release.

Teams may field no more than one unique special edition ship at any given time. The current list of unique special edition ships includes: Apocalypse Imperial Issue, Armageddon Imperial Issue, Megathron Federate Issue, Raven State Issue, Tempest Tribal Issue, Guardian-Vexor, Mimir, Adrestia, Vangel, Etana, Moracha, Chameleon, Fiend, Rabisu, Stratios Emergency Responder, Gold Magnate, Silver Magnate, Freki, Utu, Malice, Cambion, Chremoas, Whiptail, Imp, Caedes
Heavy Interdictors have increased in points cost by 1 to 13
THE THUNDERDOME PROVING GROUNDS
Unlike previous years, we will not be providing support for teams practicing on Singularity or Duality. Instead, we now have a dedicated events server called Thunderdome that will be made available only to participating teams for practice usage. This server is hosted on dedicated hardware rather than Virtual Machines, and will allow teams to practice at their own leisure using the same tournament tool the tournament is run under. More details about server and how practices will work will be coming at a later date, so make sure you keep watching the EVE Alliance Tournament Discussion section

With rewards like this for those that find glory, we’re excited about the many matches between competing teams as they compete to claim the blood soaked prizes on offer. As always, if you have questions, feel free to head on over to the Alliance Tournament Forum.

On behalf of the Tournament Team

-CCP Logibro