
EVE TV'S PLAYER COMMENTATOR TEAM
We will once again be opening up the application process for players who would like to be PVP commentators. These well-versed hosts are handpicked by us to fly out to Iceland for the tournament finals played over the final two weekends, joining the team here at CCP HQ to help us run the live broadcasts.

As a commentator you'll be on the set discussing the tournament, tactics, and teams as well as talking with developers about EVE live on air. You'll also take shifts in the commentary booth providing live commentary on the matches themselves. You need to know your PvP and you need to know how to keep on talking! Finally, you’ll be helping us create some extra videos about the tournament and the teams participating during the week between the two final weekends.

Alliance Tournament XIV will broadcast for two consecutive weekends starting on Saturday, October 8 and ending with the grand finale on Sunday, October 16. Flights (from all Icelandair destinations) and accommodations are supplied by us. All you need is a little spending money.

Are you interested? The next step is to check this short list and make sure you match what we're looking for!

Can you come out and play? Selected players will need to hold a valid passport (we will require scans to confirm this at a later stage) and be available to fly to Iceland on Wednesday, October 5 and return home on Monday, October 17.
A sense of humor is a must. Commentators will need to be sharp-witted, knowledgeable, presentable and comfortable with talking on camera and into a microphone. To increase your chances of getting through, we highly recommend submitting any pre-made or purpose filmed video you have of yourself (link to a YouTube clip!) as part of your application. Samples of you commentating e-sports matches are even better!
You need to know your PvP: We don't despise industrialists, mission-runners and miners but as this is a PvP tournament and you need to be well versed.
You must be 21+ in order to apply.
If you are interested in taking part, please email us at evetv@ccpgames.com by 23:59 UTC (Eve Time) on Sunday July 11th, 2016 with the following information. Those lucky enough to be selected for the second round of eliminations must be available to attend voice chat interviews on Saturday July 16th, 2016. The chosen commentators will be announced on the following o7 Show.

Character and real name.
Date of birth.
Nationality and current country of residence.
Tell us about yourself, both in game and out. Remember what you're applying for and sell yourself to that effect.
You must confirm you are available from October 5 to October 17 to fly to Iceland. If you need to book time off work / school please don't do it until we accept you; but please check that it is possible, if there is any doubt here please let us know.
Remember your applying to be on TV! Include any multimedia you think shows you off, all of the people chosen for the last Tournament had sent in video clips/links to YouTube!
Applications close on July 11th, so get mailing!
A final note: The Tournament from the perspective of a commentator is an amazing experience. You get to take part in a unique production, fly to Iceland, get a tour around the CCP office and chat to developers like almost no other players will ever get the chance to. But with great power comes great responsibility; planning and promotional shows take place during the weeks up to the final show and you may not be asked to fly to Iceland if you fail to take part or become unavailable during this time!

o7 on behalf of the Tournament Team,

 @CCP_Logibro