
In this simulated version of your hull, you can experiment as much as you want, change modules, activate weapons, try different charges, swap out rigs ... all without any changes being made to your real hull!

If you find a fit you are happy with, you can save it to your personal fittings or even corporation fittings if you have the necessary roles. If you are working on the same ship type as your real ship, you can also apply that fit directly to the ship. If you happen to be working on a fit for a ship type that is different from the one you are currently sitting in, clicking the 'Fit Ship…' button will open up the recently added Multifit window, allowing you to assemble 1-30 ships with that fit.

Pro tip: If the Multifit window indicates there are any missing items, mouse over the red text to get a tooltip that lists what's missing and a handy 'Buy All…' button.

LOADING HULLS
There are several ways to load a simulated hull in the fitting window:

Click on the 'Simulation mode' button
Right click on your real hull in the fitting window and select the 'Simulate my ' option.
Drag the hull from the simulation mode button to the center of the window. 
Drag any hull or structure from the 'Hulls & Fits' browser to the center of the fitting window or click on the little 'Simulate' icon on the entry. This will start simulation on an empty hull
Click on a saved fitting in the 'Hulls & Fits' browser
Click on the 'Simulate' button in Fitting Management window of a fit you were linked
Drag any assembled ship you own, whether it's from ship hangar, contracts or asset window, into the center of the fitting window to simulate that ship and its fit. Please note that if you drag any ship you do not own, only the empty hull will be simulated
FITTING AND SIMULATING MODULES
Once you have loaded a simulated hull, you are ready to start experimenting on it! You can simulate pretty much any module in EVE, as well as testing out and removing simulated rigs without having to destroy them.

There are a few ways to add a simulated module:

Double click a module in the 'Module' browser
Drag modules from nearly anywhere you can find them (for example: Module browsers, market, info, asset, inventory windows) and drop them in the center of the fitting window or an appropriate slot in the fitting window
SHIFT drag a module that has already been added to the simulated hull onto another slot to add another one in that slot
To unfit simulated modules, simply drag the module from the slot and drop it onto any of the browsers in the left panel of the window, use the 'Unfit' button associated with the slot or the slot's 'Unfit' right click option.

Once you have added some modules to the hull, you can click on them to cycle through their states

Offline ? online ? active ? overheated ? offline

With each state change, the stats in the fitting window will update to reflect the module's new state.

You can also reverse the cycle by holding down SHIFT while you click the module.

Offline ? overheated ? active ? online ? offline



There are also 3 radial menus that allow you change the state of all the modules in a rack at once.



FITTING CHARGES
Once you have fitted a module that uses any type of charge, a filtering button for that module type will be added in the charge section of the Hardware tab. Activating that filter will display only charges that fit in that module. There are a few ways you can fit charges:

With the module filter activated, double click a charge in the charge browser to load it into all the modules of that type
Drag a charge to the center of the fitting window, and it will be loaded into any of the modules that can use that charge.
If you prefer to add charges to only one of the modules fitted, you can drop a charge onto that module slot.


BROWSERS
The Hulls & Fits browser will allow you to browse all the ships and structures available to you. It also includes all your fittings for each of the hulls, and by activating the personal and corporation fittings filter at the top of the list, you can choose to view only those hulls you have saved fittings for.

