And another video from Northern Coalition. with players reacting to the Circle of Two leaving the Imperium. Each one of those colored icons is a player in a spaceship involved in the battle, and the fight is shown from a tactical view of the videocapturer fighting in the battle.


Even the in-game SCOPE news agency has since reacted to conflict and highlighted them in this new report.


For a wider, comprehensive look at the politics and history behind the conflict, this article by TheMittani.com explains things in great detail.

Propaganda for the war is hitting hurricane levels, particularly on the /r/EVE subreddit.

Here’s an amazing player-made piece by Pandemic Legion.


RECORD-BREAKING M-OEE8
The battle broke the record for the most Nullsec PVP kills in one day—the previous record was from November 30, 2014.

Peak in one system was 3436 in J-GAMP (6th highest of all time) and the peak population in the constellation was 4659, with a total of 5806 unique characters active in the constellation over the course of the battle (measured by gate jumps by unique characters in the constellation between 20:00 and 00:00).  All of this was hosted on EVE’s new Tranquility Tech III servers.

This makes it the second largest battle in EVE Online (and gaming) history, especially juicy when considering all the active parties involved on both sides bringing in the heavy hitters.


Each one of these dots is a solar system within the EVE Universe. The M-OEE8 system is glowing because the map is set to show recent kills.

With more war to come in the next months, and the Imperium consolidating closer to their tactical reinforcements, it is entirely possible larger battles involving super capital ships (as in the Bloodbath of B-R5RB) will happen over chokepoints and staging systems and perhaps even headquarter systems.

Twitch streamers, war correspondents, podcasters, bloggers, propagandists and more are at the ready to capture the action. With EVE Fanfest on April 21-23 and the next major expansion EVE Online: Citadel coming April 27th, it will be extremely interesting to see how the conflict morphs to adjust to an entire supercapital rebalance, the introduction of new Force Auxiliary Capital ships and doomsday weapons, and of course, the strategic warfare capabilities of new, and massive citadels.

