Not to be rude, but the Corax is a bit on the heavy side. We're going to lower its mass significantly and it is still going to be 50,000 kg heavier than the second heaviest destroyer. The added speed and agility should make the Corax feel much better to fly. We're also going to turn that burn into beef where it counts by giving the Corax some more shield HP.

-150,000 Mass
+50 shield HP
Arbitrator


The Arbitrator is in the strange position of being sole the representative for secondary weapons systems in the Amarr tech one cruiser lineup, while also being in the ewar category. We are going to give the Arbitrator fitting room so it can be used more easily as generalist combat ships alongside its ewar support role. We are also going to bump lock range so they it a more realistic shot at putting those ewar bonuses to use. The Arbitrator is going to pick up an extra launcher slot as well to make missile focused fits stronger.

+120 PG
+45 CPU
+1 Launcher Slot
+20k Lock Range
Bellicose


The Bellicose is is much the same position as the Arbitrator, as the sole representative for secondary weapons systems in the Minmatar tech one cruiser lineup. It will also receive more fitting room so that it becomes better suited to an all around combat role, as well as increased lock range to be able to put its ewar bonuses to better use.

+75 PG
+40 CPU
+20k Lock Range
Omen


The Omen seems to come up a bit short on fitting and capacitor in many situations, even though the ship has a lot of potential. We're going to bump the fitting room up and give it a larger capacitor pool to give cap boosterless fits more time space to work with.

+75 PG
+15 CPU
+125 Capacitor
+39,000 Capacitor Recharge Rate (cap/s stays the same as before)
Stabber


The Stabber has always gotten a pretty bad rap and that's reflected in its popularity. That said, it's a solid support killer and shows very high kill efficiency among those pilots who do use it. After considering a few options we are going to go with the Tempest treatment rather than change the slot layout. Frigate Pilots beware!

+2.5% Rate of Fire bonus per Minmatar Cruiser level (7.5% per level total)
Tristan


The Tristan is quite the little monster. It offers extreme versatility and power in many configurations. We don't think it needs massive changes though, as we are happy to see a ship where so many fitting strategies and gameplay styles are viable. A small increase to mass will slow it down slightly, giving other pilots a little more hope of catching up and pinning it down.

+88,000 Mass
Vexor


Like the Tristan, the Vexor is extremely popular due to its versatility. In the case of the Vexor we do feel that it is too easy to fit an enormous tank without sacrificing much damage due to all the free fitting room afforded by drone warfare not requiring high slot weapons. We are going to bring the power grid down to put more pressure on big tank fits.

-100 PG
Next Steps
We hope this pass, while not addressing every balance issue, sets a good tone for the kind of changes we want to make. We haven’t nailed down the next set of changes in detail, but we are looking at Tech I Battlecruisers and Battleships, Pirate and Navy faction ships, and Tech II classes like Assault Frigates and Heavy Assault Cruisers all as potential candidates. We’ll keep you up to date as we progress and hope to have consistent, incremental changes like these coming at a quick pace alongside long-term reworks and totally new ships.

We look forward to your feedback,

Fly Free!

Team Size Matters