(click to enlarge)

As part of the analysis, you’ll be given tools that will allow you to fold the luminosity curve of over time, and chop the curve into pieces of a given length so that you can overlay them across each other. This can make it easier to define periodic drops in luminosity, as they’ll line up if the graph is folded to the same frequency.

You‘ll also have a detrending tool at your disposal, which attempts to filter out large scale events caused by the star itself rather than a transiting object. Pilots can set the granularity of the detrending tool so that it will only filter out events that take longer than the set time span (options are 1 hour, 5 hours, 10 hours and 24 hours).


(click to enlarge)

Once you’ve identified a potential transit event, you’ll be able to submit your findings to CONCORD, and they’ll be shipped off to the University of Geneva for further analysis by scientists there.

REWARDS
We all know that capsuleers love doing science, however we also know that they are also dirty capitalists. With this in mind, CONCORD is offering various rewards for your efforts in assisting with their research.

Rather than using Analysis Kredits (AK) in the same way as the first phase of Project Discovery, CONCORD will be awarding points for each analysis of a light curve that’s completed with the added bonus that the more accurate your analysis is, the more points you’ll receive.

These points will let you level you up in Project Discovery. At each level you’ll receive a container that holds an exclusive Project Discovery SKIN for a randomly selected hull from one of the four main empires.

As you reach specific milestones of level 10, level 25, then every 25th level up to 200, you’ll receive tiered rewards which contain character apparel exclusive to Project Discovery, as well as BPCs and stunning new SKINs for the CONCORD Pacifier class frigate and Enforcer class cruiser.

All these rewards will be placed directly into your redeeming system.

Here’s a sneak peek at some of the ships, SKINs, and apparel that will be a part of the rewards.

(click the images to enlarge them!)

