Above – The common Human Corpse (Meatus Popsicullus).

With the introduction of the Organic Mass Granulator, for the first time capsuleers will be able to recoup the cost of their cloning contracts, along with the cloning contracts of those unfortunate enough to be located on the business end of their weapons.

After a battle, you’ll be able to deploy an Organic Mass Granulator on the battlefield alongside your Regular Mobile Tractor Unit, and it will tractor in and collect all the unfortunate souls who were unlucky enough to be pod killed during the melee.

In addition to this, we realize that biomass collection can be quite the hobby for some capsuleers. If you already have a significant collection of unfortunate pilots, you can simply deploy an Organic Mass Granulator in space, jettison your collection on grid with it, and it will collect old biomass in the same manner as the fresh stuff (so long as they’re within 100km of the unit).


Above – An artist’s impression of the Organic Mass Granulator (Special thanks to CCP PointyBits).
(click to enlarge)

BUT WAIT, THERE’S MORE!
Not only will the Organic Mass Granulator collect corpses. Once it’s full, it will also process the corpses it collects into useful raw materials.

The raw materials it will extract from the unfortunate biomass it collects are Sodium Chloride and Lacrimix, both of which are found in high concentrations throughout capsuleer corpses after a ship and pod loss.


Above – The results of processing a single unfortunate soul.

These raw materials can either be sold on the market for substantial profit, or used in the production of a new breed of combat boosters.

BOOSTER PRODUCTION USING SODIUM CHLORIDE AND LACRIMIX
Both Sodium Chloride and Lacrimix will need to be used together during booster manufacturing to reap their benefits, however the rewards of including these in your manufacturing chain are second to none.

The Introduction of the Organic Mass Granulator will be accompanied by a new series of supercharged combat boosters, which will require these two new raw materials, and will give significant bonuses to various attributes when consumed.



These new boosters offer bonuses to similar attributes as their lesser counterparts, however the effects are significantly more intense*. Please see the list below for further information.

Supercharged Blue Pill – 1,337% bonus to shield boost amount.
Supercharged Crash – 1,337% bonus to falloff.
Supercharged Drop –  1,337% bonus to tracking speed.
Supercharged Exile –  9,001% bonus to armor repair amount.
Supercharged Frentix – 9,001% bonus to optimal range.
*The Upwell Consortium assumes no responsibility for reduced cognitive function resulting from the use of these boosters. Similarly, the Upwell Consortium assumes no liability for loss of assets and/or life resulting from the use of these boosters.

FACTION VARIANTS
There are also initial plans to introduce advanced faction variants of the Organic Mass Granulator once the standard version has been rolled out. These plans will initially include variations of the deployable for the four empires, plus a special edition, before being followed with variants for each of the pirate factions.

In addition to performing the standard refining of biomass explained above with a 15% increase in output, the faction variants of the Organic Mass Granulator will include an additives bay, in which you can deposit additional materials to further enhance the output of your Granulator.

Amarr Navy Organic Mass Granulator:
Input:



Output:


NOTE - Cycle time on Amarr Navy unit is 10% longer for fermentation process.

Caldari Navy Organic Mass Granulator:
Input:



Output:



Federation Navy Organic Mass Granulator:
Input:



Output:



Republic Fleet Organic Mass Granulator:
Input:



Output:


WARNING - Water not potable.

Quafe Special Edition Organic Mass Granulator:
Input:



Output:



As with the upcoming Refineries from the Upwell Consortium, these Organic Mass Granulators will be released on a “when they’re done” basis, as we’d like them to be fully functional and working perfectly when they make their way to Tranquility.

As always, everything in this blog is subject to change as we respond to feedback and adjust designs closer to release, but we’ll keep you informed as we move forward with this exciting new development in the Upwell Consortium structures lineup.

Fly safe, and happy podding!

Team Five-0