The final major pillar of the Upwell Structures 2.0 release is the single most requested structure addition from the community over the past several months: moon mining gameplay in wormhole space and highsec.

Starting on February 13th capsuleers will be able to anchor refinery structures at the moons in 0.5 security highsec systems and in any w-space systems that contain moons. The mechanics of scanning, extracting, fracturing, and mining in these systems will be exactly the same as it is for existing moon mining in lowsec and nullsec systems.

These moons will contain a randomized selection of upgraded standard mineral ore variants, as well as some of the most common varieties of moongoo ores in lower quantities than those available in lowsec and nullsec.

OTHER UPWELL 2.0 CHANGES


Beyond the four main pillars, there are also many other miscellaneous improvements for Upwell structures coming in the Upwell 2.0 release. These changes cover a wide variety of topics any most of them were sourced from community requests and suggestions:
To provide more time for final battles (especially in high load situations), the final hull repair timer for Upwell Structures has been doubled from 15 minutes to 30 minutes.
The damage messages received when attacking structures will now properly display the amount of damage your weapons are inflicting even if that damage is being deflected by the structure damage cap. Instead of listing your attack as “0 damage”, you will see the potential damage with a note of how much of that damage was deflected.
To improve the balance around using carriers from within tether range of structures, launching fighters is now considered an aggressive action for the tethering system. This means that any carrier or supercarrier with fighters under its control will automatically break tether and remain untethered until it either recalls or abandons the fighters (or those fighters are destroyed in combat)
Asset safety is a major part of Upwell structures, but we have heard from many players that it provides a bit too much absolute safety in some circumstances. We are making a few tweaks to the asset safety costs to help address these concerns:
The formula for calculating asset safety values will now provide a more accurate estimate of the item value, and will be much less likely to value an item at 0isk
A new minimum asset safety recovery cost has been set at 0.5% of item value. This cost will be required to recover items from asset safety even if the recovery takes place in the same solar system
We are currently investigating adding asset safety costs to the killmails for structures so that attackers would be able to clearly see how much damage they inflicted. This will not be ready in time for Upwell 2.0 and we cannot guarantee it at this time, but we are hopeful that it will be possible in the future.
Another issue that the CSM raised at our recent summit meeting was the removal of structure rigs before destruction to deny satisfaction to the attackers. To solve this issue, destruction of fitted rigs will no longer be possible while a structure is damaged. Rigs will essentially follow the same rules as modules.
A new icon has been added to structure brackets in the overview and space scene to indicate whether you currently have permission to dock in that structure. This indication will make it much easier to determine which of the structures on a grid are open to you. It is however important to remember that even if one of your characters has permission to dock in a structure, that doesn’t mean that your other characters necessarily have the same permissions.




NPC corps may now be added to access lists in the same way that player corps can be added. This will allow ACL admins to add specific NPC corps such as rookie corps and FW militia corps to their permission lists as needed.
Unanchoring structures will now display the progress of their unanchoring timer in the structure browser to characters with the Station Manager role
When unfitting a clone bay service module, a new popup message will inform you about how many jump clones would be destroyed by that action and check to see if you’re sure
It is now possible to self destruct pods inside a citadel with a cloning bay service module, just like you can in a station.
There are also some other changes we have in progress that will not be ready for the February path but that will be coming soon after:
Locking of blueprints is coming soon to Upwell structures! Locked blueprints will remain locked if they enter asset safety and will need to be unlocked by vote before being recovered from the asset safety system. This is a major step towards full feature parity between station and Upwell structures and we hope that it will be very helpful for industrialists
We are working on increasing the set of characters allowed in the names of Upwell structures to include commonly used characters such as $, %, and ~
Most of these changes and new features will be showing up on the test server in the near future for the community to try out and see what you think. We will be creating specific feedback threads with numbers for many of the balance changes such as the new modules and fighters, so keep an eye out on the official forums for those to appear in the coming days. We highly encourage all interested players to hop onto the Singularity public testing server and try these changes out for themselves.

One important task to complete before the February 13th patch day is to pre-set the reinforcement hour and day for your active structures. This can be done through the structure browser in the same place where current vulnerability schedules can be changed. We will be releasing new reports as reminders between now and the Upwell 2.0 patch to ensure that everyone has a chance to prepare.

Once again, we want to give a huge thanks to everyone who has been passing along feedback on the existing structure system and on these new proposed changes. We will be reserving space in the comments thread for a FAQ and some example scenarios and we encourage you all to ask questions and let us know what you think there.

Thanks for joining us for this dev blog today and fly safe!

Team Five-0