Citizens of New Eden,

In this blog we will lay out the timeline for the CSM 13 elections and the submission details that candidates for CSM 13 need to read carefully. Please join the discussion thread after you've memorized the contents.

The Council of Stellar Management is a proud, old institution with deep roots in the EVE online community. Members are democratically elected once a year in an online election hosted by CCP.

As a unique phenomenon in gaming the CSM has gone through many stages and iterations but the core purpose has always been the same – for the players of New Eden to have a strong and formal voice that cuts through and helps CCP make EVE better for you.

CSM 13 elections – All you need to know!
Let‘s start with the timeline. As mentioned in the last summit minutes the discussion came up to change the term cycle and placing elections after Fanfest. CCP agreed with this idea as it gives both us and new CSM members a better timeframe to integrate new members and gives the CSM more quality time in the first quarter of every year with less interruption from impending election. Instead of announcing results at Fanfest, Fanfest will now be the start of the official campaign period and an opportunity for confirmed candidates to really start promoting themselves (bring a wooden box to Fanfest)!

Let´s look at the timeline for CSM 13.

Applications are open – March 19 - 23

Candidates for CSM 13 are announced – FANFEST

Voting will take place late April/May – Dates will be announced later in a separate blog

Spring/Summer – CSM 13 onboarding & orientation

CSM 13 Summit 1 – September (likely dates are Sept 3-6)

CSM 13 Summit 2 – February

Application requirements - this is the important bit if you want to apply for the CSM

Important disclaimer: This year we are tightening up the timeline and leaving a smaller window open for candidacy submissions while at the same time giving plenty of preparation time between this announcement and the applicationw window.. We will be strict about incorrectly filed submissions and missing documents and reject applications that don‘t meet standards. We‘ll make the rules very clear and we will take questions if you are unsure about the process, but once submissions are open it‘s important to get it right. In past years we‘ve spent quite a bit of time going back and forth with some candiates to provide ultimate fairness and make sure everyone who qualifies gets on the ballot. Quite frankly it hasn‘t made any difference to who gets on the CSM and it stands to reason that serious candidates who have what it takes to be a CSM member, will come from the pool of people who get the application right, especially after we‘ve stressed the urgency.

To be eligible for the CSM, applicants must meet the following requirements:

Your account must be older than 60 days at the time candidacy applications close.
Characters on both Alpha and Omega accounts are eligible to run.
You must have a history of honoring the EULA and the Terms of Service. We will screen every applicant thoroughly and EULA/TOS violations on your record can result in a rejected application.
Your account must have updated and correct information at the time of your application. This includes; your real life name, correct date of birth and the same email you use to submit your application. To view and edit this information go to the account management website.
Candidates must have reached 18 years of age. If the legal adult age in your home country (the age at which you have the legal capacity to enter into a contract) is higher than 18, that number applies instead.
As an applicant, you must consent to provide your personal details to CCP, including your real name and a copy of your passport. CCP needs to affirm your real life identity for NDA contract purposes and the ability to travel to summits in Iceland is a key function of the CSM.
If you do not currently have a valid passport, we will accept a picture/scan of a valid and approved passport application accompanied with a picture of your driver‘s license.
You must consent to sharing your country of origin with the EVE Community and having it displayed on the EVE Online website. You will not be required to share any other personal information with the EVE community.
If you are running as an „alt“ and you control a character that has a reputation in the EVE universe, CCP may require you to run under that identity at its full discretion.
*All personal data will be handled in accordance with law and deleted after the election

How to apply

There are two steps to applying:

Fill in the application form between 12:00 AM on March 19 and 12:00 AM on March 23. The form will return a confirmation if the application goes through. Beware session time-outs and make sure to save your text in a document. If you don‘t get a confirmation, re-enter the information and try again. If your application already went through, the website will inform you of that.
Submit your document scans/pictures to csm-contact@ccpgames.com in high-quality with the subject „ CSM 13 application“ Both these steps need to be completed within the submission window. Applications filed outside this window or without valid documents will be rejected.
Extra tips: •	Applications cannot be edited after you submit them so make sure your information is correct! •	Once your application has been submitted, you are encouraged to create a campaign thread in this forum section.

We look forward to receiving your applications and following all campaigns. We here at CCP feel we are stronger and do a better job at developing and maintaining EVE with the CSM by our side. Big thanks to everyone who supports the CSM project and vote for their favorite candidates every year!