A STATUS UPDATE ON OUR WORK ON SOVEREIGNTY GAMEPLAY
In the blog about the long distance travel changes in Phoebe, we outlined 3 phases of work on addressing gameplay in 0.0 security space in New Eden. Phase One was the travel changes, and we have now started work on Phase Two - a set of changes to sovereignty mechanics and related features and systems. Two teams are working on this full time, combining changes to structure gameplay, corporations and alliances and the sovereignty mechanics themselves in order to make impactful changes to EVE that improve gameplay and quality of life. Three things are in motion relating to this where we are seeking your input:

We are doing design work on sovereignty mechanics, and we are preparing to present concrete designs to the CSM at the CSM Winter Summit on January 20-23rd. Meeting minutes and dev blogs will follow to let the full community participate in discussing the proposed changes.
We are doing design work and preparing for big changes to structures overall in EVE--including structures involved in sovereignty mechanics. As input into that work, we are running a survey on structure related gameplay in EVE, including a number of questions around sovereignty structures and gameplay. Please give your thoughts and perspective by participating here: //structures.questionpro.com
We are taking requests for big and small improvements to the corporation and alliance interface and we will be releasing features continuously in 2015, along with deeper changes such as intra-corporation aggression changes and extended alliance-based functionality such as bookmarks. Please post your interface suggestions in this thread: We want your corp little things!
We will evolve these key systems with the ambition of strengthening the unique sandbox gameplay in EVE, making territorial warfare available to both big and small groups, creating more meaningful objectives and gameplay connected to it, and offering quality of life changes to anyone operating in EVE connected to this gameplay. You can also expect the unfolding events in New Eden to make a difference for all areas of the universe. 

Improving this part of EVE is at the heart of our plans for 2015. We will not just release a single set of changes, but continuously work with these systems all throughout the year and take the time needed to make things work well to provide good times and good fights.

We are very excited about this endeavor, and I hope you will be too once you get to see more of the actual plans early next year.
