BALANCE BETWEEN QUALITY LEVELS OF DRONES
Another area of imbalance in the current drone attributes is the different quality levels, or meta-levels, of drones available. Combat drones currently fall into one of five distinct quality levels (sentry drones are addressed below):

Basic Tech One drones are the most plentiful, cheap and easy-to-use drones in the game. They remain the baseline against which every other type of drone is compared.

Tech Two drones are more powerful drones that are produced by players, mainly through the advanced Invention process. They are more expensive to produce than Tech One drones, and have the highest skill requirements of any variety of drones. To make up for this added difficulty and expense, Tech Two combat drones gain a 20% advantage in hitpoints, speed, tracking and damage compared to the basic Tech One versions. They can also gain an extra 2% damage for each level of their racial Drone Specialization skill that is trained. These bonuses are already quite balanced and provide a valuable progression for drone users, so they are not changing.

Faction Navy drones are advanced drones that are only available from each Empire’s Factional Warfare loyalty point stores. They are notable for their excellent hitpoints and tracking, as well as low skill requirements. However their low speed and underwhelming 15% damage bonus over Tech One leave them without enough value to justify their cost for most players. We will be keeping their HP and tracking intact, while also giving them speed and damage on-par with Tech Two drones -- although the Navy Drones will still not gain the extra 2% bonus per level from the drone specialization skills.

“Integrated” and “Augmented” drones are both built from components and blueprints looted from the remains of deadly rogue drones in the drone regions of nullsec space. Currently they receive some bonuses above and beyond Tech One drones, but their cost is mainly due to rarity and they are not powerful enough to encourage common use. We will be upgrading the “Integrated” drones to have 15% more damage and 10% more HP, tracking and speed than Tech One drones. “Augmented” drones will keep their current significant bonuses to HP, tracking and speed, and will see their damage bonus increased to 32% above Tech One drones, putting their damage on par with a fully skilled Tech Two drone.