**NO PLAN SURVIVES CONTACT WITH THE PLAYERS: LET’S TALK ABOUT EMERGENCE**
Before we go over the individual proposals in detail, I would like to take a moment to address wormhole residents directly and hopefully dispel a few misconceptions that seem to have taken root in parts of the community.

By now quite a few players have heard stories about the history of how Wormhole space was designed within CCP. The original vision for this new space was that it would be a place for players to send temporary expeditions in search of riches and adventure. It was believed that the extremely lucrative rewards of this uncharted space would draw players to search for their fortune, but that the difficulties caused by randomly changing wormhole connections would prevent players from settling down permanently in this hellish environment.

Now with the benefits of hindsight this prediction appears amusingly naive. Ingenious players have quite easily overcome any and all challenges and created an entire society within this uniquely hostile environment. You quickly learned the secrets of wormhole spawning and static connections, developed techniques for long-term starbase living that nobody had ever seen before, and created your own set of social norms, vocabulary, and even a shared religion.

Over the years I have seen some players drawn some unfortunate and incorrect conclusions from this story. The belief that CCP is angry about this unintended behavior or that we are trying to somehow eject players from wormhole space to bring it more in line with the original pre-release vision. This belief couldn’t be further from the truth and betrays a regrettable misunderstanding about how CCP approaches ‘unintended’ player behavior in EVE.

There’s a story that our CEO, CCP Hellmar likes to tell about his personal experience playing EVE right after launch in 2003, and the moral of that story applies here as well. Some of you have probably heard the story before - here is a link to the video of him retelling that story from Fanfest 2013. Go ahead and give it a look, the relevant section is about three minutes long.

.
..
…
Back? Ok let’s talk about the parallels between that emergent activity (jetcan mining) and long-term wormhole residence. In both cases EVE players proved even more creative and resourceful than CCP had ever expected, and CCP developers were surprised by the emergent gameplay. In both cases CCP also quickly realized that what the players had created was even better than what we had originally planned. We are not interested in trying to squash unexpected player behavior (unless it’s an exploit that breaks the game experience for everyone else of course). When CCP speaks about giving players the power and acting as janitors of the game we’re not just spouting marketing lines. This acceptance of player agency is right at the core of EVE’s success over the last 11+ years.

We are absolutely happy with how players have taken the wormhole feature and run with it over the last five years and we look forward to many more years of watching the adventures of the wormhole community with joy and awe. Anyone telling you otherwise is woefully mistaken.

Normally I wouldn’t feel that we have to go over our views this explicitly, but I’ve been seeing a distressing number of players misunderstand our position and I wanted to hopefully end the confusion once and for all.

Now that we have that cleared up, I’m sure you’re interested in seeing what we have been working on for our Hyperion release!
