**MASS-BASED SPAWN DISTANCE AFTER WORMHOLE JUMPS**
Feedback thread

The next major change we are proposing to wormhole mechanics is a variable adjustment to the distance that ships appear at after jumping through wormholes.

This change is intended to ensure that all attempts to control the local wormhole environment are open to risk of player disruption. We are not satisfied with how easy and safe it is to close wormholes that could potentially allow other players to interact with W-space operations, as the risk of player interaction should always be the main source of tension and danger in W-space.

A proof of concept version of this change appeared on our Singularity test server over the weekend, which caused some consternation among parts of the wormhole community. I want to remind people that unannounced changes appearing on test servers are not a reliable guide for what might reach Tranquility. The version on SISI had distance values that are very different than the ones we had been discussing with the CSM most recently.

The basics of this proposal is for the mass of any individual ship to influence the range that they appear from the wormhole when they emerge on the other side. This should provide a more interesting tactical environment in wormhole combat and ensure a basic level of risk to rolling a wormhole without proper support.

This change would indeed increase the amount of time involved in “ragerolling” (intentionally collapsing static wormhole connections repeatedly to search for targets), but we believe that with the correct values ragerolling can still be viable and that the increase in random wormholes will provide a secondary outlet for players looking for fights without needing to rageroll as often.

After continued discussion with the community we have made some adjustments from the original plan. We are reducing the base range significantly for large ships, and changing the random element to the jump distance. Now the maximum deviation from the base distance will increase for jumping through wormholes that have had significant amounts of mass pass through them. The deviation will be a maximum of 2km for fresh wormholes, and will increase to as much as 5km (in either direction) for a wormhole that is about to collapse. There will also be a lower bound of 2.5km set to prevent the wormhole from decloaking ships.

We beleive these changes will help ensure that the average time to return to a wormhole after jumping will be reasonable, while also keeping an element of risk and randomness. The variable deviation will also allow players to strategically choose how and when to jump ships through a wormhole to reach their desired outcomes.

The new base distance would scale as high as ~14km from the wormhole for the largest ships, and the random factor for each jump would range from 2km (for a fresh wormhole) to 5km (for a crit wormhole) in either direction. The distance from a wormhole that ships must be within to jump will remain 5km as always. The potential distances for several types of common ships would be:

Ship

Mass

Base Distance

Distance to jump range

   
Min

Max

Covert Ops Frigate

           1,280,000

5.5 km

0 km

5.5 km

Plated T3 Cruiser

         14,300,000

6.9 km

0 km

6.9 km

Plated Bhaalgorn

       101,000,000

8.8 km

0 km

8.8 km

Orca

       250,000,000

10.1 km

0.1 km

10.1 km

Average Carrier

   1,120,000,000

13.5 km

3.5 km

13.5 km

Average Dreadnought

   1,240,000,000

13.8 km

3.8 km

13.8 km

After discussion internally and with the CSM, we believe these values would ensure a significant amount of risk in jumping capitals through wormholes while also allowing players to effectively roll wormholes using supported capitals and orcas. We expect that creative players would adapt by using specialized fits to speed up their wormhole rolling and we are perfectly fine with this.

We know many of you will be interested in providing feedback on this plan, and we will be reading and considering all reasonable feedback posted in this thread.
