**CHANGES TO K162 SIGNATURE APPEARANCE**
Feedback thread

As many of you may know, we have been thinking about the mechanics surrounding K162 wormhole appearance for quite some time.

Currently, as soon as the first player initiates warp to a new wormhole, the other side of that wormhole connection (the K162) appears and is visible to probes and to the sensor overlay in the destination system. This provides an unfair amount of early warning to players in the destination system since they receive warning of an impending incursion before the first player jumps into their system. The addition of the sensor overlay in Odyssey made this problem more visible, but it has always existed through the probe system and has never been good gameplay.

We floated an early proposal concerning this issue on the wormhole forums, which discussed the option of implementing a delay after players jump through a wormhole before the K162 wormhole is visible. After discussing this idea on the forums and at Fanfest with members of the W-space community, we heard the major concern that the idea as proposed would have caused players to feel helpless, like there was nothing they could do to detect the potentially hostile players in their system. This is a very legitimate concern, so we went back to the drawing board.

The result is our next proposal, which we believe effectively navigates the concerns of the hunters and the hunted.

As of Hyperion, we are planning to have K162 signatures appear as soon as the first player jumps through their wormhole connection. This prevents players in the destination system from receiving unfair early intelligence while also ensuring that a vigilant player can determine if a potentially hostile intruder has entered their system through a new wormhole connection.

Once a wormhole has been jumped through once, the K162 signature will remain scannable for the lifetime of that wormhole. This scannable state will persist across downtimes.

After discussion with the community we have decided to make some adjustments to this plan to ensure that enough wormhole connections become visible to keep travel options open.

Although K162 signatures will not appear as soon as a player warps to them (as they do currently), they will have a random chance to appear every several minutes once the wormhole connection has less than 15 hours of natural lifetime remaining.

We are looking forward to your feedback on this change, and will be reviewing it from this thread.
