TOTAL: $470,616

This is an astonishing feat for a community the size of ours, and really shows that while EVE players may explore the in game limits of morality while they play, our amazing community has once again demonstrated its immense collective strength and capability as a force for good.

There have been some amazing stories that came out of PLEX for GOOD this time around, including an unfortunate player who was scammed out of a number of PLEX which were then directly donated to the PLEX for GOOD fund less than 10 minutes later by an individual who can only be described as the interstellar equivalent of Robin Hood.

PLEX for GOOD “Bit By Bit” hosted by Chribba has also raised an amazing amount of donations once again as a program which puts aside small amounts of ISK from individual contributors, which is then pooled to purchase PLEX as donations to PLEX for GOOD.

However, the most awesome story I personally came across was that of our largest individual donator, who gifted 700 PLEX / $10,500 / 626,500,000,000 ISK (almost 10% of the total to PLEX for GOOD).

This in itself is an immense contribution, however when we looked at this donation further and came to the realization this this player is from the Philippines, which were assisted by our last PLEX for GOOD drive after the terrible impact of Typhoon Haiyan, it became an incredibly heartwarming story of giving something back.

**The Check:**

Today we had the pleasure of welcoming representatives of the Icelandic Red Cross, as well as the President of Iceland to CCP Headquarters in order to hand them a check for $103,650 on behalf of the players of EVE Online:

 
 
(click to enlarge - Photos courtesy of Arnar Valdimarsson - CCP ArnarV)

Both the Icelandic Red Cross and the President wish to express their most profound thanks to our community for the incredible generosity that has been shown. The President also remarked that the EVE community is a shining example of multi-national crowdsourced fundraising for charity, and that more games companies and online communities should follow the example set by the PLEX for GOOD program in order to assist their fundraising efforts.

Once again, here at CCP we are finding it very difficult to choose words that express our gratitude to the EVE Community for the incredible generosity you have all shown over the course of this fundraiser. The Community Team does however have an amazing display on the windows of our office as a constant reminder of the fact that we serve what is, without a doubt, the finest gaming community on Earth.


(click to enlarge)

From everyone here at CCP Games, we offer our most sincere thanks and profound gratitude for the astonishing level of support you all show for PLEX for good.

CCP Falcon
EVE Universe Community Manager

On behalf of the PLEX for GOOD Taskforce