REPAIR STATE
Any damaged structure that is in a vulnerable state will automatically try to repair its shields, armor or hull after a specific amount of time. Unlike regular ship shields, this is not an on-going regeneration process – it’s like a shield booster or armor repairer that would instantly restore all hit points after a specific cycle time has passed. Please note this will not happen if the structure is invulnerable.

It will not be possible to accelerate the process using any kind of remote repair modules – we do not want to favor static fleets of logistics or carriers sitting near the structure and preventing incoming damage to be applied. In the same vein, we do not believe requiring players to sit for hours repairing a structure manually after a fight to be interesting gameplay.

This repair timer will automatically be paused whenever damage is being applied to the structure. This gives attackers a chance to take the shields, armor or hull layer down before the structures repairs itself.

As such, the attacker goal is to maintain a presence near the structure to keep applying damage over a specific amount of time until either the shields, armor or hull hit points reach 0.

As explained above, if shields reach 0 hit points, the structure enters an invulnerability phase, at the end of which armor will become vulnerable for attack
If armor reaches 0 hit points, the structure enters another invulnerability phase, at the end of which hull will become vulnerable for attack
If hull reaches 0 hit points, the structure is destroyed, its assets taken care by the asset safety feature
Adversely, the defender goal is to remove attacking ships doing damage to the structure before the HP layer is depleted (shields, armor or hull) – this can be done by assuming direct control of the structure, and / or by using your own fleet to repel the attackers (without the part where we give you a quick access route to the structure power core to blow it up with a few torpedoes, sorry).

As mentioned above, the repair damage stops whenever damage is applied. It will resume counting down 10-30 seconds after the structure stopped receiving incoming damage. When the repair timer hits 0, the structure fully repairs its shields, armor and hull
The repair timer will vary depending on where the structure is deployed, and if the structure owner has any kind of Sovereignty index
Repair timer for all Citadel sizes

High-security space and null-security space with full indexes

15 minutes

Low-security and W-space

30 minutes

Null-security space, owner has no index

60 minutes

Be aware that we are actively seeking to prevent types of hit and run tactics that would allow the attacker to apply damage without committing to the battlefield (we are looking at you, Stealth Bombers). If you want to attack someone’s assets, be ready to commit your fleet to it.
