A FEW MORE THINGS…
Whilst we have your attention, we have a few other additional changes that we want to highlight. All the changes mentioned in this blog are already on the Singularity test server, awaiting your evaluation.

Jump Fatigue Reductions
We are reducing the maximum fatigue cap down to 5 days (from 30 days). This means the effective maximum jump cooldown timer is now 12 hours (down from 2 days 22 hours). During the Parallax deployment downtime we will update any characters with jump fatigue higher than 5 days, or jump cooldown higher than 12 hours, to bring them within the new limit.

This isn’t the final iteration on Jump Fatigue, and you can expect to see more tweaks in the future.

Preparing to Count your Kills
Hopefully by now you’ve watched this video, as seen on the EVE Updates site.


With the Parallax release, we are adding the necessary behind-the-scenes kill tracking for individual ships. This is in preparation for the availability of Kill Marks coming to ships in a subsequent release.

There are going to be a few restrictions about what type of kills will count towards a ship’s Kill Mark tally. Here are the current rules about which targets will be scoring:

Only player ship types will count. Shuttles, Capsules and Rookie ships are excluded, as are drones, NPCs, structures, cans, wrecks.
Ships must be owned by player characters. Ships owned by characters on trial accounts will be excluded. Ships owned by NPCs (or with no owner) will be excluded.
Ships must be piloted at the time of death. Unpiloted ships will be excluded.
Killing your corp-mates’ ships will not count.
Only the ship with the final blow can earn a point for a kill. If a drone, missile or bomb kills a target, the parent ship will count as the killer.

So start warming up those guns.

Scoop to Fleet Hangar
Does your ship have a Fleet Hangar? Have you ever wanted to scoop items in to it?

Well now you can!

There’s not much more to explain here - this image tells you everything you need to know.
That’s the latest round-up from Team Five 0. Thanks for reading, and some of us will see you in Vegas! :-)