ACTIVITY DEFENSE MULTIPLIER MECHANICS
The Activity Defense Multiplier is the mechanic that provides defensive advantages from active occupancy of a star system. This is the key mechanic through which we hope to achieve the goal of making unused space easy to conquer and heavily used space hard to conquer.

As described in the last Sov dev blog, this multiplier will be obtained through the existing Sovereignty system indices (Military, Industrial and Strategic), which together will form a collected defensive multiplier.

In-universe, this mechanic represents an advanced AI built into the Sovereignty structures that uses behavioral profiling to determine the difference between benign network access and dangerous intrusions. The more normal baseline activity in the system, the more data available for this AI to use in its intrusion detection system, minimizing system vulnerability and slowing hostile influence.

In practice, the Activity Defense Multiplier slows down the rate of hostile Entosis Link capture for all Sovereignty structures within the star system and all their associated command nodes, allowing defenders more time to respond to attacks and providing a major advantage to the defender when competing in a capture event.

We are making a number of changes to the original designs that increase the effectiveness and importance of this Activity Defensive Multiplier. We believe that these changes will go a long way towards improving the defensive options for alliances that make use of their space and avoid over-extending.

The first significant update to the design is a 50% increase in the maximum activity defense multiplier, from 4x to 6x.
This change allows for much stronger defense of actively used systems, while still ensuring that defenders must undock and actively fight for their space when threatened.

This new cap for the multiplier means that disabling a station service with the Entosis Link would require between 5 minutes and 30 minutes of uncontested linking depending on the system activity level (under the old cap the range was 5-20 minutes) and reinforcing a structure or capturing a hostile command node would take between 10 and 60 minutes of uncontested linking (as opposed to the previous range of 10-40 minutes).

This higher multiplier is especially powerful during the capture events, where the defenders can capture command nodes up to 6x faster than the attackers if they have maximum activity. This allows much more powerful asymmetric warfare for smaller, determined defenders fighting larger attackers, and forces the invader to further split their forces to keep up with the node capture rates of an active defender.

We are also planning to allow multiple paths to reach the activity defense multiplier cap.
One piece of feedback we’ve seen since the reveal of the initial designs is that a cap that matches the top level of all three indices can feel a bit too punishing, as reaching the cap would require the owners of a star system to be equally active in both NPC killing and mining. Ensuring that the cap is reachable without maximum levels of all three indices allows players to play to their strengths and interests without being punished. This also has the effect of increasing the multiplier of the average system, further increasing defender advantage.

With these new changes, the contribution towards the Activity Defense Multiplier for each level of system indices is increased significantly, and the final result is capped at 6x.

The new version of the table listing the bonus provided by the system indices is:



To determine the full bonus applied to each owned structure, find the appropriate value of your current level in each of the three indices and add them together, then add the base value of 1. If the final result is above 6, cap it at 6. The speed at which attackers reinforce or capture structures or command nodes is then divided by that result.

We’ve also created a new version of the example table from the last blog:



You’ll notice that the defensive benefits obtained from all of the system indices have been increased significantly.

The fairly achievable goal of having a Strategic Index of 5, one of Military or Industrial at 5 and the other at 3 is enough to reach the new cap of 6x.

We are also introducing a new mechanic to help alliances defend their home staging systems: designated alliance “capital” systems.
This feature is designed specifically to address the fact that major staging systems are often singularly unsuitable locations for mining or ratting. These systems tend to be some of the busiest in Nullsec space, with many pilots docked and in space, very active markets and strong industrial operations. However they also tend to attract too much attention to make excellent PVE systems, and our first generation Activity Defense Multiplier system will not include contributions from typical capital system activity such as trading and manufacturing. We hope to work towards including these factors in future iterations of the Activity Defense Multiplier mechanic, but in the meantime we need an effective way for alliances to defend their staging systems.

Under this system, each alliance will be able to designate one system as their “capital”. The system they choose must already have an active Territorial Control Unit belonging to their alliance and when changing capitals, the bonuses in the new capital will not take effect for several days. This is intended to prevent alliances from shifting their capitals rapidly to react to invasions or to stabilize newly captured territory.

The capital system for each alliance will provide a flat +2 addition to the Activity Defense Multiplier of all Sovereignty structures owned by that alliance within that system. The cap of 6x multiplier still applies. This allows capital systems to hit the activity multiplier cap much more easily, even in systems that are not particularly safe ratting or mining locations.

If the bonus on this feature is too high there would be danger of alliance intentionally splitting just to get more capital systems, but we currently think that a +2 to the multiplier in a single system isn't so strong that it will push people too hard in that direction. We're of course interested feedback from the community on this feature. If people start abusing this feature by splitting alliances to gain large numbers of capital systems, we will not hesitate to reduce or even remove the bonus.
