PLAYER CONNECTIVITY
We are not just replacing old hardware with new, but also looking at what more can be done to improve the player experiences with regards to connectivity. As part of that effort, we will be deploying a new Intelligent Routing Platform to optimize BGP routing. This system will automatically test both latency and packet loss to every single player upon connection to TQ, running tests simultaneously over each of our connected providers and peers back to the player's ISP (Internet Service Provider).It will also non-disruptively switch each connection to the best available path.

Active connections get tested every few hours. This system has proven to be able to seamlessly bypass many problems and blackouts that regularly afflict the rough seas of the Internet. The excellent reporting will also allow us to tailor our selection of providers to the ones that perform best for EVE players.





On our tests, as you can see on the charts above, the Intelligent Routing Platform was able to improve on connections to over 7,000 ISP networks worldwide, eliminating packet loss in 91% of connections to TQ where packet loss existed, and bypassing blackouts on internet routes in 59% of cases. Latency is also much improved, with reduction of at least 20% in more than half of the high-latency connections. Those are the types of metrics we love to see!

Finally, we will continue to expand our peering with LINX, the London Network Exchange, which allows us to peer directly with a large number of ISPs. That way, players connecting via those ISPs can reach TQ directly, without crossing any additional networks on the public internet, cutting down on the number of hops and offering a much more stable connection.

We would love to tell you all about the specs of these new boxes in mind-numbing details (we can talk about that endlessly, believe me!), but our security specialists tell us that we must keep most of that secret. But, but, but, if you come to the OPS discussion roundtable at the next EVE Fanfest, we promise to share with you glimpses of this wonderfully new and improved world of Internet spaceship networking.

CCP Lucca and CCP Skylark