**THE LATEST RELEASE SCHEDULE**
As we have continued to incorporate community feedback into our designs and work on implementing the new system, we have been able to further refine our anticipated deployment schedule for these updates. As we discussed with the community previously, the original estimate was deployment on our June 2nd release, with the expectation that this estimate could change as implementation continued and we received a clearer picture of what work was needed.

We now have that clearer picture and we’re ready to announce that the currently announced changes will be spread across multiple releases. As previously announced, some Sovereignty changes were deployed last week in our Mosaic release.

We are planning to release the rest of the announced features across the upcoming June 2nd and July 7th releases.

The deployment on June 2nd is called the Carnyx release, and will contain the core Entosis Link influence mechanic and the Activity Defense Multiplier mechanic, which will be connected to the enabling and disabling of station services in that first release. We also plan to release the user interface for alliances to manage their default vulnerability window and capital systems, so that they can be selected and ready to go when the rest of the features release.

The deployment on July 7th is called the Aegis released, and will contain the rest of the announced changes. The Entosis Link will be expanded to impact all Sovereignty structures, the vulnerability windows will take effect, and the constellation-wide capture events and Freeport mode mechanics will become active.

This deployment schedule is intended to ensure that we will be able to release the most polished system possible. It also allows any potential issues with the core Entosis Link mechanic to expose themselves with the comparatively low-impact station services.

As part of this schedule update, we now expect that the Singularity test server playtests of the full system will take place in June. More details will be made available as we get closer to the date. We have received quite a few signups for the playtest so far, and we’ll be keeping signups open until downtime on Friday, May 22nd. If your alliance wishes to participate in a competitive playtest of the new Sovereignty capture system on SISI this summer, have your alliance executor corp CEO character send an EVEmail to the character “CCP Fozzie” expressing your interest, as well as a rough estimate of how many players you expect to get in fleets for such a test and information on your primary timezone(s) before downtime on May 22nd. As we announced at Fanfest, the winning alliance will have their alliance name added to the description of the Entosis Link I blueprint as a permanent testament to your contribution.
