EXPANDING AGAIN
Yes, I said expansion. We want to give you EVE Online expansions with a more epic feel to them again, but in a new form.

In the summer of 2014, we started delivering updates to EVE in a new way: instead of two expansions per year, we switched to a more rapid way of releasing features, doing about 10 releases per year.

Here's what we’ve liked about releasing updates almost every month:

Small and medium features get to you quicker
We can give you stuff early and continuously develop features with more feedback from the whole community
We can take on more ambitious projects because the timelines are more flexible
Here's what we think hasn’t worked so great with this new release cadence:

It encouraged us to take bigger changes that should really belong together and chop them up into multiple releases once each part was done – which has created a disjointed experience in some cases
We put a lot of responsibility on you players to figure out what's coming and when, and what the future of EVE is, instead of us packaging big changes together and telling you about them all at once
We have gotten a lot of feedback along these same lines from you players, so we are going to change to a hybrid release model that hopefully brings together the best of both worlds:

We will continue to release features on a regular five-week schedule, especially things like quality of life changes, ship balance changes, visual upgrades, new ship skins, storyline developments, and other content. Some of these features will be surprisingly big and some relatively small but still important.
So for the most part, we'll continue with the style of releases you have seen since Kronos in 2014. The next two are Vanguard and Parallax, bringing you things like multi-buy, new burner missions, alterations to the new sovereignty system, changes to jump fatigue, and a whole mess of graphical improvements.

But we will also bring back expansions. What's then the difference between a release and an expansion in this hybrid form? First, an expansion will be a set of big, connected features that both make impactful change on EVE, and make a statement about what kind of game EVE is. Second, there won't be a fixed number of them per year, but rather we will announce when we have one in the making and what the main features are. While we will have a timeframe in mind for the release of the expansion and tell you about it, the exact date won’t be pinned down until we are confident that the state of all the connected features are in a good place. 
