WHY ARE WE CHANGING THE SYSTEM AND WHY NOW?
There are many reasons why SKINs are happening now, and we would like to lay out some of these reasons to give you a better understanding of why we are doing this and what you can expect going forward.

Design debt from the current system is preventing us from doing a lot of cool new things we would like to see happen and is a constant additional cost for content creators when they put new skins into the game. As it stands currently, whenever we add a new paint style to the game we have to duplicate the base ship. This means we then have two ships--the base and the new paint styled one--to show in the market, on the overview, and in contracts. It also means that whenever someone wants to make a change to the ship like balancing its stats, they have to go through and balance not just the base ship but all of the different paint style versions.
Performance is also a big factor. The current paint system uses a lot more graphics memory. The new SKIN system will not just be a new user experience, but we are taking advantage of a new shader system that our graphics department has put together for us.
Usability of the current system is sub-par. This was something we knew going into releasing the pilot program and it was designed to help us gauge interest with a small investment. Now that we have proven the idea out it's time to improve this.
Pricing the paint styles when they are destructible is huge challenge. We have to consider factors such as how often the ship is flown and how often it dies. With the new SKIN system we can focus our pricing efforts more on the SKIN design itself.
Building the new SKIN system from the ground up has allowed us to build it with the future in mind. This means we have been able to ensure it's capable of doing all the cool things we have been thinking about. For example, with the new system SKINs are assigned to a character as its owner. Done correctly there isn't much reason that the owner couldn't be a corporation in time. Or time-limited skins that we can give out as sort of trials. Or what about expanding the system to go beyond just ships and include structures? These are all things we are thinking about and attempting to make sure the system supports. They are in no way shipping with the first release of the SKIN system.