VULNERABLE 1
A structure that is successfully deployed then enters normal operation mode. Players may use its services, dock, man the defenses or do whatever else is allowed by them. The structure also becomes vulnerable to attack during specific times.

In more details that means:

Structures may only be attacked by entosis links during their vulnerability windows.
The duration of a vulnerable 1 window is a mandatory timer expressed on a weekly basis, whose length varies depending on the structure size, location and role.
This phase happens periodically while the structure is working normally and has not be set into reinforcement yet.
Players owning the structures set the vulnerability time themselves (if they have enough roles) – this can be done in advance, before deploying the structure.
Attacking a structure in high-security space without a war declaration is a bad idea and thus gives you a criminal flag. It is like trying to add pineapples to a pizza (which is one of the many barbaric traditions a Frenchman must endure in Iceland).
How players assign weekly vulnerability hours is entirely up to them, as long as they fill the quota. You could assign all hours consecutively if you dispose of enough manpower, or you could spread them out over multiple days. Hours have to be spent whole however, no weird split minute shenanigan is allowed.

Example 1:

Soft Croissant Incorporated™ is a small 5 man corporation having a Citadel L structure in high security space with a 6 hours of weekly vulnerability window. Not being a hardcore gamer, the structure owner decides to set the vulnerability window 2 hours during Tuesday evening and 4 hours on Saturday.


Example 2:

The Alluring Baguette Syndicate™ is a large alliance that just deployed a Citadel XL structure in null security space with a 21 hours of weekly vulnerability window (they have full occupancy and indexes). Confident of its manpower and general resources, the structure owner sets the vulnerability window to cover 3 hours each day of the week.


Current numbers for the weekly vulnerability window are set as follows and varies based on location or occupancy. Those numbers will most likely change with time.
