WHAT TO EXPECT ON PATCH DAY
With the July 14th deployment date of the new sov capture system fast approaching, it’s important that everyone be aware of how the transition from the old system to the new one will play out.

Since the basic functions of TCUs, IHubs and Stations are remaining constant, the transition for most of these structures will be fairly straightforward. We are endeavoring to cause as small of a disruption as possible to any sovereignty conflicts that may be in progress on patch day.

Sovereignty Blockade Units
SBUs do not play a role in the new system, and will begin to be phased out this month. During the patch downtime all SBUs in space will be destroyed, and SBU blueprints will be rendered inert. Any new SBUs launched into space after patch day will explode one minute after appearing in space.

At the same time, we will begin the process of phasing out SBUs and their blueprints from the game. NPC buy orders will appear for SBUs and un-researched SBU blueprints so that players can choose to recoup some of the value of their SBU stock at their own pace. After a few months of voluntary buyback we plan to convert all SBUs to TCUs, SBU blueprints to TCU blueprints, and remove the legacy market entries for these types.

Excess Territorial Claim Units and Infrastructure Hubs in Space
Under the new system, only one TCU and one IHub will be allowed in space per system. As part of this transition, on the patch downtime any TCU or IHub that is in space but not in an online state will be destroyed. This will ensure that only one TCU and one IHub per system will remain. We advise all Alliances to ensure that their IHubs are online before the release downtime on the 14th.

Structures that are reinforced or vulnerable as the patch downtime begins
In order to prevent unnecessary confusion and complication on patch day, all Infrastructure Hubs, Stations and TCUs that are in reinforced, vulnerable and/or damaged states will be reset to full health and full owner control over the patch downtime. This means that a sov structure that has a reinforcement period straddling the patch downtime will no longer be reinforced after the patch deployment is completed. If the structure’s normal vulnerability period (as determined by the combination of your Alliance’s vulnerability timer and the system’s Activity Defense Multiplier) extends over the time of the server startup, the structure will begin in a vulnerable state with 100% control by its owning alliance. Otherwise the structure will begin in a secure state and become vulnerable at the beginning of its next vulnerability period.

Any stations that are owned by corporations outside of an Alliance during the patch downtime will immediately enter a Freeport reinforcement period for approximately 48 hours from the server startup point.

In order to keep the disruption for ongoing sovereignty warfare to a minimum, we are not currently planning any other “sov invulnerability period” after the patch (beyond the one time removal of reinforcement states over the patch downtime).
