THE O WORD: DEFENSE BONUSES FROM OCCUPANCY
The term occupancy Sov has taken a peculiar place in the EVE community’s consciousness over the last year or so. It has become incredibly popular, partially because it makes an excellent box within which the speaker can place all their hopes and preferences for the future of Nullsec. We could easily find hundreds of players who would advocate for occupancy Sov, but when we dig deeper we discover that many of those players are imagining completely different mechanics.

It’s for this reason that I hesitate to assign the label of “occupancy Sov” to this plan, as there is no single plan that could reflect each player’s personal vision of “occupancy Sov”. However there are some important qualities at the center of the occupancy groundswell that are extremely valuable and belong in our next Sovereignty system.

In-space activity should be encouraged and rewarded
Defenders (especially smaller, spatially concentrated defenders) should be able to receive significant advantages when protecting their homes
If an alliance takes more space than they can reasonably use, it should be relatively easy for a new group to take that empty space and make better use of it
Engaging with and disrupting enemy activities with small gangs should slowly erode their strategic defenses
For the first release of this new Sovereignty system, we will be working towards these goals by tying the existing system indices to a new occupancy defensive bonus that slows the structure capture rate of all attackers.

Just like in the current Sovereignty system, the Military Index is obtained by killing NPCs in the system and the Industrial Index is obtained by mining in the system. The Strategic Index, which is currently tied to the lifetime of the TCU structure, will be tied to the lifetime of the IHub instead.

The bonus provided by the Military and Industrial indices are 150% stronger than those provided by equivalent levels of the Strategic Index. This is intentionally designed to provide a larger incentive for active occupancy than for simple duration of system control.

This defensive bonus will apply to all Sovereignty structures that have a current owner and are in a star system with any indices above 0, as well as Command Nodes for those structures (no matter what system the Command Nodes are physically located).

The basic mechanics of the Entosis Link remain the same (no benefit beyond the first module, two opposing modules pause all capture) but when anyone other than the owner of the base structure is making capture progress that progress will be slower.

The currently planned bonus levels are:

 

To determine the full bonus applied to each owned structure, find the appropriate value of your current level in each of the three indices and add them together, then add 1. The speed at which attackers reinforce or capture structures or command nodes is then divided by that result.

For a fully maxed out system, this occupancy bonus would divide enemy capture speed by 4 (causing them to require 4x as much time to capture or reinforce a structure or service).

Some other example values:



This system of occupancy defensive bonuses is intentionally built to be modular and adjustable. In future iterations of the Sovereignty system we plan to refine the process for measuring activity, including expanding what kinds of activities are counted towards the bonuses.
