PIRATE DETECTION ARRAY CHANGES
By far the most important of the Sovereignty Infrastructure Upgrades is the Pirate Detection Array. This upgrade provides a constantly respawning supply of combat anomalies full of pirate NPCs to fight. These sites are a key part of the Nullsec economy, and form a huge part of the greater EVE economy. A very large proportion of the ISK that enters the EVE economy every day consists of the bounties obtained from these anomalies.

This makes the Pirate Detection Array one of the most powerful tools for adjusting Nullsec PVE opportunities, and also means that we must act with utmost caution when changing these upgrades.

For our July 14th release we are making a series of significant changes to the effects of the Pirate Detection Array upgrades, in the form of added anomaly spawns.

The goals of these changes are to:

Increase potential population density of upgraded systems
Compress the gap in system quality between higher and lower truesec systems so that lower value systems become more attractive than they are currently
While also:

Ensuring that increases in ISK faucets stay within acceptable ranges for the overall EVE economy
Ensuring that different quality levels of Nullsec systems remain distinct and that Alliances see value in attempting to take better space
This is a tricky balance, and we will need to watch the results of our changes very carefully and be ready to make adjustments as needed. We’ve also been consulting with CCP’s research and economics experts to make use of their expertise and give us the best chance of getting this right.

In this release, we are increasing the number of guaranteed anom spawns provided by each Pirate Detection Array level from 4 to 7. This means that a fully upgraded system will have 35 anomalies instead of the current 20 (a 75% increase). This allows more pilots to operate at their current levels within the same solar system, increasing potential population density.

The types of anomalies added serves as the method by which we are compressing the difference between higher truesec and lower truesec systems. The new anomalies added to the best systems will be of similar quality to the ones that already spawn there. However the new anomalies added to the lower quality systems will be significantly better on average than those available now.

As an example, a fully upgraded -1.0 system will gain the following 15 anomalies in addition to those that spawn there now:

+2 Sanctums, +3 Havens, +2 Forsaken Hubs, +4 Forsaken Rally Points, +2 Forlorn Hubs, +1 Hub, and +1 Forlorn Rally Point.

These additions allow for more players to engage in their PVE activity in the same system, but doesn’t significantly skew the average anom value.

In contrast, a fully upgraded -0.1 system would gain the following 15 anomalies in addition to those that already spawn there now:

+3 Havens, +1 Forsaken Hub, +3 Forsaken Rally Points, +2 Forlorn Hubs, +2 Hubs, +2 Forlorn Rally Points, +1 Port, and +1 Hidden Rally Point.

These new anomalies do not match the average quality of those available in the best systems, but that are much better than the average quality of the anomalies available in current -0.1 systems.

We believe that these changes have a good chance of hitting the correct balance for Nullsec without causing undue disruption to the economies in other areas of space.
