ACCOUNT SECURITY CASES (HACKING & ACCOUNT SHARING)
If you have visited the r/EVE subreddit over the past few months, you may have seen some threads concerning the reply times for tickets relating to account security. It's worth taking a moment to provide some insight into these cases and why they take so long to resolve.

Account security cases are perhaps the most complicated tickets that we deal with, due to this complexity they tend to need to be handled by our most experienced GMs who have years of experience. 

These cases often involve ISK and assets being laundered by other players or Real Money Trading (RMT) operatives, using all manner of tricks that need to be tracked in order to reverse damages or to take punitive measures against those involved. During this process a GM may find more hacked accounts, each of which need to be investigated. This further complicates and extends the amount of time spent per ticket.

Since the introduction of skill extractors we saw a large increase in the amount of RMT motivated cases. This increase has led to our security team, GMs, and dedicated software teams collaborating to produce specialist tools to aid GMs in identifying and resolving these cases. It took time to research, produce and implement the tools but they have since made a great impact on how quickly we process these cases. 

Unfortunately delays in developing these tools lead to long waits for replies to tickets from players with compromised accounts--delays which we failed to communicate transparently to our players at the time.  Those affected players have our sincere apologies and hopefully should have received some additional game time as compensation for the delays and lapses in communication.

We plan to do better in future, but ultimately need our players to help address these issues by asking that they make use of two factor authentication for their accounts and refrain from involvement in account sharing or funding RMT by ensuring they only purchase PLEX and other EVE services from CCP or our authorised resellers.
