YOUR ACCOUNT

You may establish onlymore thanonlymore than one (1) Account for each copy of the Software licensed. establish another play EVE by using more than oneIf you wish You are however not allowed to you must obtain another license at the same time, unless you pay a subscription feeestablish another play EVE by using more than one account, the Software (you may do this by purchasing and downloadingeach ofyou must obtain another license at the same time, unless you pay a subscription fee for Software from CCP at the EVE Online web site, //www.eveonline.com.) accounts you intend to use for that purpose.the Software (you may do this by purchasing and downloadingeach of the Software from CCP at the EVE Online web site, //www.eveonline.com.) accounts you intend to use for that purpose.

A. Establishing a New Account

Upon establishing a new Account, you will be entitled to play EVE.for a stated period of time (not Once you have established an account, you will have an option to exceed thirty (30) days) without paying to pay a subscription fee (the "Trial Period"). If your Account is not terminated which will allow you to enjoy additional features in accordance with the procedures set forth below within the stated Trial Period, you will be charged the subscription fees as described during the registration process when you established your Account EVE.for a stated period of time (not Once you have established an account, you will have an option to exceed thirty (30) days) without paying to pay a subscription fee (the "Trial Period"). If your Account is not terminated which will allow you to enjoy additional features in accordance with the procedures set forth below within the stated Trial Period, you will be charged the subscription fees as described during the registration process when you established your Account EVE.

Only an individual, natural person who is an adult or, in the discretion of such an adult, his or her minor child, may establish an Account. You are responsible and liable for all activities conducted through your Account, regardless of who conducts those activities.

You may not share your Account with anyone, or allow anyone other than you personally (or your minor child, if you have registered an Account on behalf of your minor child) to access or use your Account. Joint or shared ownership or use of an Account by more than one user is prohibited.

Accounts may not be used for business purposes. Access to the System and playing EVE is intended for your personal entertainment, enjoyment and recreation, and not for corporate, business, commercial or income-seeking activities. Business entities and anyone who is acting for or on behalf of a business or for business purposes may not establish an Account, access the System or play EVE.  Accessing the System or using the Game for commercial, business or income-seeking purposes is strictly prohibited.

B. Passwords and Names

You will be asked to select a password during the registration process ("Password"). You may not disclose your Password to anyone or allow anyone to use your Password to access the System or play EVE. You are responsible for maintaining the confidentiality of your Password and for any damage, harm, lost or deleted characters, etc. resulting from your disclosure, or allowing the disclosure, of any Password, or from use by any person of your Password. You may not obtain, attempt to obtain, use or attempt to use the password of anyone else. You are responsible for remembering your Account information and Password.

You will be assigned a login name and a character name during the registration and character creation process. You may not allow anyone to use your login name or character name to access the System or play EVE. No player may use the character name of another player to impersonate or falsely represent his or her identity. You may not obtain, attempt to obtain, use or attempt to use the login name or character name of anyone else.

You are encouraged to use a pseudonym, but you may not choose a name that violates anyone's trademarks, publicity rights or other rights. Acceptance of a pseudonym by the System does not mean that your chosen pseudonym does not violate anyone's rights. You are responsible for any liability incurred by yourself, CCP or anyone else due to the pseudonym you choose. CCP retains the right to reject any pseudonym it determines, in its sole discretion, is unlawful, indecent, obscene or otherwise violates standards of good taste.

C. Children

(1) Responsibility for Account

Minor children may not establish an Account without the consent of a parent or guardian. If the user of EVE is a minor, a parent or guardian must complete the registration process to establish an Account, in which case the parent or guardian takes full responsibility for all obligations under the EULA and for all activities of the child using the Account. If you are a parent or guardian, you may permit one child to use the anthe an Account instead of you (in which case you may not use that Account).

If you establish an Account, you represent that you are an adult thirteen (13) years of age or olderthirteen (13) years of age or older and are either accepting the EULA on behalf of yourself or on behalf of your child, in which latter case you agree to the EULA with regard to your child and represent that you are also personally bound by the EULA.

(2) Game Rating

EVE has a "TEEN" rating.  Parents may find it inappropriate for use by children under the age of thirteen (13).

D. Inappropriate Conduct / Communication.

CCP may establish Rules of Conduct (discussed below) for players accessing the System and may, but is not obligated to, monitor and take action regarding inappropriate conduct. Nonetheless, it is possible that at any time there may be language or other material accessible on or through the System that you may consider inappropriate or offensive to some users. You acknowledge that other players may transmit communications or content, or access to content, that you may consider inappropriate or objectionable. CCP does not, as a matter of policy, prescreen the communications or content transmitted by each player and is in no way responsible for the communications and content transmitted by players of the Game.
