A YEAR IN REVIEW
Before we talk about ticket reply times, queue status and address some of your feedback, we want to highlight some of the events since last we spoke.

New Ticket System
Last June we went live with a new ticket system, a much needed improvement on the old system which had been in use since EVE launched back in 2003. We got to play with lots of new tools which help track ticket submissions metrics, measure reply time averages (more on this later) and lots of other fascinating stuff which quite probably only the Lead Game Masters find interesting but which ultimately benefit you, the players.

Perhaps the most obvious benefit to players of the new system was the Help Center which contains around 190 articles and gets over 5000 views per day. We love communicating directly with you all, but I think you would all agree that it is preferable if a player can have his question answered without the need to submit a ticket.

CSM X Summit
For the second year in a row we scheduled a session to meet with the CSM during their summit here in Reykjavik.  One of the major concerns they raised was transparency with regards to what is and what is not an exploit. Because of this feedback, the Known and Declared Exploits article was produced. It's one of the most 'liked' articles and we aim to keep it updated as much as possible. We're looking forward to meeting with CSM XI in September.

Player Submitted Art
Last March the Operations and IT team expanded their territory and erected a new wall between themselves and Customer Support team. The bittersweet moment of the final part of the wall going up left us with a sense of loss (<3 the ops team) but also a whole lot of blank wall to cover. Despite our best efforts to decorate the wall it was decided that a couple of cat meme pics just weren't going to be good enough. So we asked you, the players, to create some art for us to hang on the walls. You responded admirably and the winning art was printed out and now proudly hangs for all Game Masters (GMs) and visitors to see. 


