ACCOUNT SECURITY
Since we have seen a slight increase in account hacking/hijacking recently, we also want to reiterate some of the good old advice that might help you keep your account safe.

Use strong passwords. Of course, passwords should not be easy to guess or brute-force so make them long and use numbers, lower and upper case letters as well as special characters to make them stronger.
Use Two-Factor Authentication (//community.eveonline.com/news/dev-blogs/two-factor-authentication/). This will make it significantly harder for baddies to steal your account and characters, tamper with your personal information on the account, and cause trouble for you and us in general. We know that Two-Factor Authentication is not fully effective yet (EVE Client Login without Launcher), but the new EVE Launcher (//updates.eveonline.com/date/2016-01-12/#32ebg) is one of the final steps to close this loophole.
Do not share your login information. This is some pretty basic stuff, really. If you share your login information with someone then said info is only as safe as his/her security may or may not be, you have no control over it whatsoever and if they get hacked you get hacked.  That is, if they don't just use your login info themselves to sell off all your things.
Do not use the same password for different EVE Online accounts. Also fairly basic - if one account is compromised then chances are that all accounts are compromised.
Never use your EVE Online username and password for social media, other gaming accounts or gaming forum access and the like. Sites get hacked all the time and it is even not unheard of that usernames and passwords lists are sold to unscrupulous individuals who then use them to steal your stuff.
Make sure your operating system is up to date. Critical security updates are no good if you don't have them.
Scan your computer. New viruses, key loggers, spyware and other malicious stuff is constantly being spawned, so regularly scan your computer with up-to-date antivirus software.
Don't click on dodgy links. Bad guys use fake login pages to harvest login info all over the place and websites with malware abound so be careful what you click on.  For millions of years, bad guys have sent people phishing messages that look legit and ask you to log into your account for one reason or another. We will not be sending you emails too often so be careful and contact us at security@ccpgames.com if you receive something suspicious.
Make sure your account contact information, including real name and email address, is correct in case we have to contact you or verify the account ownership for whatever reason. Also, if you need to reset your password it is important that your email address is correct.
Change your password and don’t store it on a post-it or in a text file. Change it regularly and frequently. If the hackers have old out of date login information then they can't steal your stuff. We also recommend that you use a state-of-the-art password manager.