PLEX
As with previous Alliance Tournaments, we will be distributing the PLEX collected as entry fees as prizes in the tournament. If a very large number of PLEX are bid during the secret auction, the number of PLEX awarded may potentially increase.

This year, the PLEX will be awarded as follows:

Teams that place between 17th and 32nd will receive 5 PLEX
Teams that place in the top 16 will receive 10 PLEX
Alliance Tournament Prize Ships
Ever since the 7th Alliance Tournament, the main prizes each year have been a set of special edition frigates and cruisers, with unmatched combat prowess. Only 50 of each type of frigate or cruiser are given each tournament.

As with Alliance Tournament XII, this year we will be distributing the special edition prize ships to the top 4 teams, with each team receiving an equal number of cruisers and frigates.

1st place: 25 Cruisers and 25 Frigates
2nd place: 15 Cruisers and 15 Frigates
3rd place: 7 Cruisers and 7 Frigates
4th place: 3 Cruisers and 3 Frigates
This year, the ships on offer from the Independent Gaming Commission (IGC) are based on Blood Raider ships. Skilled pilots are sure to be able to use the strengths of these ships to drain and defile their enemies. The preliminary ship stats are as follows (and may be subject to change):

Caedes
Caedes

4 Highslots (1 Turret)
3 Midslots
5 Lowslots
10 Mbit bandwidth, 30m3 Dronebay

Amarr Frigate bonuses (per skill level):
20% bonus to Energy Nosferatu and Energy Neutralizer drain amount
25% bonus to Small Energy Turret falloff range

Minmatar Frigate bonuses (per skill level):
20% bonus to Stasis Webifier range
20% reduction in Cloaking Devices CPU requirement

Covert Ops bonuses (per skill level):
10% bonus to Core and Combat Scanner Probe strength
25% bonus to Energy Nosferatu and Energy Neutralizer falloff range

Role bonus:
400% bonus to Small Energy Turret damage
10+ bonus to Relic and Data Analyzer virus strength
Can fit Covert Ops Cloaking Device and Covert Cynosural Field Generator
Cloak reactivation delay reduced to 5 seconds
No targeting delay after Cloaking Device deactivation
Energy Nosferatu fitted to this ship will drain targeted ship's capacitor regardless of your own capacitor level

Rabisu
Rabisu

6 Highslots
3 Midslots
6 Lowslots

Amarr Cruiser bonuses (per skill level):
35% bonus to Energy Nosferatu optimal range and falloff
20% bonus to Energy Nosferatu drain amount

Minmatar Cruiser bonuses (per skill level):
20% bonus to Logistic Drone transfer amount
20% reduction in Cloaking Devices CPU requirement

Logistics Cruisers bonuses (per skill level):
20% bonus to Remote Armor Repairer optimal and falloff
15% reduction in Remote Armor Repairer activation cost
2% reduction in Remote Armor Repairer cycle time

Role bonus:
80% reduction in Remote Armor Repairer powergrid requirements
100% bonus to Remote Armor Repairer optimal and falloff
Can fit Covert Ops Cloaking Device and Covert Cynosural Field Generator
Energy Nosferatu fitted to this ship will drain targeted ship's capacitor regardless of your own capacitor level

Alliance Tournament Edition Blood Raider SKIN
As with Alliance Tournament XIII, we will be offering a ship SKIN that can be applied to any of the Blood Raider ships to give them a unique visual style. We will be awarding 10 copies of this SKIN for each series won by a team. This includes the single match series that make up the bulk of the tournament. This should provide an additional incentive to try and win every match you can. Again like last year, these skins will be handed out later than the rest of the prizes at a yet to be determined date.
