GOALS OF THE NEW SYSTEM
There are a number of goals that we consider crucial for the design of this new system -- many of which are not being met by the current warfare link and fleet bonus system.

Fleet boosting should represent a distinct and valuable support role that allows skilled players to shine
Force multipliers are a huge part of EVE gameplay, and we always want to ensure that there are engaging and valued roles for players who enjoy providing support to their allies. Many other dedicated fleet support roles such as logistics, command destroyer, interdictor, and interceptor piloting all involve tactical decision making and allow the best pilots to stand above their peers.

The old warfare link mechanics leave something to be desired in this area (language warning). By building the new Command Burst system around specific areas of effect and enabling booster pilots to swap bonuses during combat, the new system will provide much more engaging and active gameplay.

Fleet boosting should allow counter-play by enemies and involve risk appropriate to its power
Although probing down and catching off-grid boosters under the current system is possible and can be very powerful, it requires support that is not always available to small fleets or solo players. Bringing all fleet-affecting gameplay into visible range ensures that players have the ability to interact with all relevant elements of their opponent’s fleets.

Under the old fleet hierarchy system, this vulnerability would have become an undue burden on fleet commanders as reshuffling fleet positions as your booster ships die would involve unreasonable micro-management. Under the new Command Burst system fleet, hierarchy no longer matters for boosting, allowing Command Burst redundancy in the same way fleets already build logistics and interdictor redundancy.

Fleet boosting should provide clear feedback so all players involved can understand what’s happening
The existing warfare link system has a serious feedback problem. A small checkmark is the only way to see if your boosts are working, and pilots memorize the effects of certain boosts on certain stats to keep an eye on their bonuses. For opposing players the situation is even worse, as there is no way to detect that an opponent is boosted by warfare links and passive fleet bonuses. This can be especially frustrating for pilots flying in small groups or solo, as it strongly impacts the capabilities of your opponents without providing discernable feedback.

In the new Command Burst system we are ensuring multiple layers of feedback so everyone involved can understand the situation. Command Bursts will have a clear visual effect indicating the area in which ships have received the buff. Command pilots will receive a combat log message that indicates how many allied ships have been impacted by each burst, so they can more accurately judge their positioning. Pilots that are receiving the bonuses will see new icons in the “effects bar” above their HUD that indicates what bonuses they are receiving and how long those bonuses will last. Opposing pilots can see the visual effects trigger when boosts activate and a new subtle visual effect that can be observed when a ship becomes affected by a burst.
