TICKET REPLY TIMES
One of the most common points of feedback from players is that we need to be more transparent on how long a player can expect to wait before their ticket is replied to. We would love to be able to say to a player that they can expect a reply to their ticket in 'x' hours, but this is simply not possible with how our support system works and because there are too many factors to consider when estimating reply times. 

One factor which affects reply times is how many tickets we receive. It should be simple in that the more tickets we predict to receive the greater the reply times will be. However, predicting the amount of tickets we expect to receive is not that simple. With our new system we can get a fairly good estimate of how many tickets we will receive in an average week. With EVE though there is rarely such a thing as an average week. The graph below shows daily tickets received from July 2015 to July 2016. As you can see there are frequent spikes in tickets submitted each of which would throw off any estimate of reply times we could provide to players. 

Some spikes represent expansions, which we can take into account because they are planned, but some spikes in ticket submission spikes come pretty much out of the blue. The two biggest spikes we saw in the last year came from issues which we did not expect to cause a huge number of tickets. For instance, one issue relating to players encountering a black screen when logging in was completely unexpected.


(click to enlarge)

The approach we are aiming towards is that players will receive the first reply to their ticket within 36 hours of the ticket being submitted. By aiming towards this goal we remove the need to provide what would likely be inaccurate estimates for reply times. 

Below you can see on average for July 2016 of how long a player waited before they received the first reply to their ticket. The 0-1 hours reply typically relates to those tickets which are handled in the queue mentioned earlier which deals with time sensitive or easily resolved issued. Getting the average first reply time down to 36 hours is going to be tough to achieve and it won't happen overnight but we feel that its attainable and a level of support that you deserve.


