NEW STRUCTURES ON THE BLOCK: MEET THE ENGINEERING COMPLEXES


Although these Engineering Service Modules and rigs are perfectly functional when fit to existing Citadel structures, they will really shine when used on the newest line of Upwell structures: The Engineering Complexes.

Engineering Complexes have a lot in common with Citadels, and share much of the same core functionality. In a lot of ways, the relationship between Citadels and Engineering Complexes is much like the relationship between different classes of spaceships in New Eden. They share many of the same mechanics but differ in certain aspects like cost, module slots and bonuses.

Some of the key similarities between Engineering Complexes and Citadels are:

Both Engineering Complexes and Citadels are built and deployed in the same way, with the same deployment location restrictions (not allowed in certain newbie or trade hub systems, must be placed at least 1000 km from other Upwell structures). Both use the same 24-hour anchoring process
Both Engineering Complexes and Citadels use the same vulnerability, reinforcement and damage cap system for defense. The damage caps for each size of structure remain the same whether that structure is a Citadel or Engineering Complex
Both Engineering Complexes and Citadels use the same asset safety system for recovering contents when destroyed or unanchored
Both Engineering Complexes and Citadels use the same access list system for managing access to the structure and its services
Both Engineering Complexes and Citadels use Standup-brand modules and most of these modules can be fit to both types of structures. All the Citadel Service Modules can be used in Engineering Complexes, and most Engineering Service Modules can be used in Citadels
Both Engineering Complexes and Citadels are dockable and include tethering for nearby friendly ships. All core functions like refitting, contracts and direct trade are available in both lines of structures
As we continue to add new core functionality to Upwell structures over time (such as the planned future additions of insurance and docked repair functionality), these functions will generally be added to all Upwell structure lines
Some of the major differences between the two classes of structures are:

While Citadels gain bonuses to combat rig strength and Citadel service module fuel use, Engineering Complexes gain bonuses to manufacturing/science jobs and engineering service module fuel use instead.
Engineering Complexes are significantly less expensive than Citadels.
Medium Engineering Complexes will cost approximately 40% less than Medium Citadels
Large Engineering Complexes will cost approximately 60% less than Large Citadels
XL Engineering Complexes will cost approximately 90% less than XL Citadels
Engineering Complexes have longer vulnerability periods and fewer hitpoints than Citadels
Each size of Engineering Complex has 33% fewer hitpoints than their Citadel counterpart
The Medium Engineering Complex will require 9 hours of vulnerability weekly, with 14 hours and 26 hours for the Large and XL Engineering Complexes respectively
The two larger sizes of Engineering Complexes have more limited docking abilities for their size compared to Citadels.
Medium Engineering Complexes allow docking of subcapital and Freighter vessels, the same as their Citadel counterparts
Large Engineering Complexes share the same docking restrictions as Medium structures. They can build capital ships and launch them from the internal dry docks but cannot accept docking of capital ships from outside
Extra Large Engineering Complexes share the same docking restrictions as Large Citadels. They can accept docking of normal capital ships, and can launch supercapital vessels from their internal dry docks, but they cannot accept docking requests from external supercapital ships
These tighter docking restrictions are what allowed us to keep the price of Large and XL Engineering Complexes so much lower than their Citadel counterparts without causing major balance issues
Before we move forward, we have one quick PSA about new structures and System Cost Index multipliers. In the long-term we hope to add a sovereignty upgrade that reduces the industry system cost index, to replace the bonus that currently exists on outposts. However, for the medium-term outposts will be keeping their existing bonuses to system cost index multipliers. This means that there will be some benefits from placing Engineering Complexes in the same solar system as an outpost (especially an Amarr outpost), as well as placing them into highsec systems with large numbers of NPC stations. Engineering Complexes themselves will have no impact on the system cost index multiplier (just like starbases).

Now let’s take a look at the three new structures in the Engineering Complex line. All three are named after important inventors and innovators in the history of New Eden.
