ISK BUYER AMNESTY INITIATIVE
New RMT initiative: come clean, receive amnesty
The struggle against Real Money Trading (RMT) continues unabated and we are now unveiling plans for a new push on that front, which you may find interesting.  This operation is aptly named “ISK Buyer Amnesty Initiative” and details are as follows:

Let us start with everybody’s favorite reading material, the EULA:

6.B. Selling Items and Objects

“You may not transfer, sell or auction, or buy or accept any offer to transfer, sell or auction (or offer to do any of the foregoing), any content appearing within the Game environment, including without limitation characters, character attributes, items, currency, and objects, other than via a permitted Character Transfer as described in section 3 above. You may not encourage or induce any other person to participate in such a prohibited transaction. The buying, selling or auctioning (or any attempt at doing so) of characters, character attributes, items, currency, or objects, whether through online auctions, newsgroups, postings on message boards or any other means is prohibited by the EULA and a violation of CCP's proprietary rights in the Game.”

Since the collapse of the EVE Gate, humans in New Eden have longed for never-ending piles of ISK. CCP recognizes this demand, and provides PLEX – as a completely legal option for turning your real life cash into precious space bucks. 

We differentiate between those who sell ISK and those who purchase ISK through illegitimate methods, even if both are in violation of the same EULA clause above. This is because those who buy ISK are typically players. We like those.  

ISK buyers are also not in violation of the next EULA clause we’d like to highlight:

2. A. Establishing a New Account

“<…Accounts may not be used for business purposes. Access to the System and playing EVE is intended for your personal entertainment, enjoyment and recreation, and not for corporate, business, commercial or income-seeking activities. Business entities and anyone who is acting for or on behalf of a business or for business purposes may not establish an Account, access the System or play EVE.  Accessing the System or using the Game for commercial, business or income-seeking purposes is strictly prohibited.”

We cut some paragraphs here, and the highlighting is our own, because it is important. It essentially says that when you create an account, you are a person who intends to play the game for fun, and not as a way to make money.  

ISK sellers have always been permanently banned on first offense, which will continue.

ISK buyers have been handled on a two-strike policy, this will also continue:

7 day ban and removal of proceeds
Permanent ban
Effective immediately, we are also offering amnesty for ISK buyers who come clean by emailing security@ccpgames.com with actionable evidence of people selling ISK. Such information should include:

What you bought
When you bought it
From whom you bought it
Proof of purchase – we’ll correlate with our own in-game logs. Usually your proof of purchase or receipt will include all of the 3 items above. 
For your honesty and cooperation, which is sincerely appreciated, you will not be banned. Other actions will be determined on a case by case basis.

We want to point out that this is not intended to encourage anyone to go and buy ISK – if you have already then you can come forward with actionable information and receive amnesty as described above. Repeat offenders who have previously utilized the amnesty program will of course not be viewed in such a positive light. 

We also want to draw attention to the “PLEX for Snitches” program which permits us to reward players with PLEX if they send us reliable and actionable information about security related issues.  For more details on this please go here.
