TERMINATION; SUSPENSION OF ACCOUNT

A. By CCP for Termination of the Game

CCP does not guarantee that it will continue to offer access to the System or support the Game. CCP may, in its sole discretion, cease to provide any or all of the services offered in connection with EVE (including access to the System and any or all features or components of the Game), terminate the EULA, close all Accounts and cancel all of the rights granted to you under the EULA. CCP may communicate such termination to you upon 30 days’ notice in any of the following manners: (i) when you log into your Account; (ii) in a notice on CCP's website; (iii) via electronic mail; or (iv) in another manner that CCP deems suitable to inform you of the termination. If CCP terminates the EULA pursuant to this section, you will not receive a refund of any fees.

B. By CCP for Breach or Misconduct

(1) Suspension of Account

Without limiting CCP's rights or remedies, CCP may immediately, and without notice, discontinue or suspend access to the System through your Account, and any and all other Accounts that share the name, phone number, e-mail address, internet protocol address or credit card number with the discontinued or suspended Account, in the event of (i) a breach of the EULA (including the Rules of Conduct) by you or any user under your Account; or (ii) unauthorized access to the System or use of the Game by you or any user under your Account.

(2) Termination of EULA

CCP may terminate the EULA, close all your Accounts, and cancel all rights granted to you under the EULA if: (i) you fail to pay the fees when due; your account has been inactive for a number of 90 days;you fail to pay the fees when due; your account has been inactive for a number of 90 days; (ii) CCP is unable to verify or authenticate any information you provide; (iii) you or anyone using any of your Accounts materially breaches the EULA, makes any unauthorized use of the System or Software, or infringes the rights of CCP or any third party; or (iv) CCP becomes aware of game play, chat or player activity under your Account that is, in CCP's discretion, inappropriate, offensive,  or in violation of the Rules of Conduct. Such termination shall be effective upon notice transmitted via electronic mail, or any other means reasonably calculated to reach you.

CCP reserves the right to terminate any and all other Accounts that share the name, phone number, e-mail address, internet protocol address or credit card number with the closed Account. Termination by CCP under this section shall be without prejudice to or waiver of any and all of CCP's other rights or remedies, all of which are expressly reserved, survive termination, and are cumulative. You will not be entitled to receive a refund of fees for a termination pursuant to this section.

C. By You

(1) Anytime

You may terminate the EULA with regard to any or all of your Accounts at any time, upon notice to CCP via electronic mail. You will not receive a refund of any fees in the event of such termination.

(2) For a Change in the Subscription Fee or Payment Terms

If a change in the fees or payment terms is unacceptable to you, you may as your sole and exclusive remedy,as your sole and exclusive remedy, terminate the EULA and close all of your Accounts by notifying CCP via electronic mail within thirty (30) days after the later of (a) the date that CCP has posted the change on its website; or (b) the date the change has impacted your Account (e.g., your credit card has been charged). Your notice must state: (i) that you do not agree to the change, specifically describing the change, and that you wish to terminate the EULA and close your Accounts; (ii) your player name and (iii) your login name. You may receive a refund of any prepaid subscription fees, prorated as of the effective date of your termination, by sending CCP a request via electronic mail within thirty (30) days of your termination notice. If you continue to access the System or use EVE more than thirty (30) days after the later to occur of (a) or (b) above, without following the termination procedure set forth above, you shall be deemed to have accepted the change and waive your rights to terminate under this section.

(3) For a Change in the EULA

If an amendment alters a material term of the EULA that is unacceptable to you, you may, as your sole and exclusive remedy, terminate the EULA and close your Accounts by: (a) clicking the "DECLINE" button when you are prompted to review and agree to the amended EULA; or (b) notifying CCP via electronic mail within thirty (30) days after the amended EULA was communicated to you, provided that you have not clicked the "ACCEPT" button, accessed the System or played the Game during that period. Your notice must state: (i) that you do not agree to the amended EULA, specifically describing the amendment(s) with which you disagree, and request CCP to close all of your Accounts; (ii) your player name and (iii) your login name. You may receive a refund of any prepaid subscription fees, prorated as of the effective date of your termination, by sending CCP a request via electronic mail within thirty (30) days of your termination notice. If you click "ACCEPT" or otherwise continue to access the System or play the Game, you shall be deemed to have accepted the amended EULA and waive your rights to terminate under this section.

D. Closed Accounts

If for any reason the EULA is terminated with regard to any or all of your Accounts, those Accounts will be closed, upon which all rights granted to you under the EULA shall terminate with regard to the closed Accounts, and you must discontinue your use of the Software, and you may not access the System or play the Game under any closed Account, and all the attributes of the Accounts, including characters, items and currency in the Accounts, will be lost. If for any reason the EULA is terminated, you will not be entitled to compensation for the past time you spent playing EVE, for the real or projected value of your Account were it to be sold, or for any other compensation, other than a prorated refund of prepaid subscription fees under certain circumstances as expressly set forth in the EULA.

Users whose Accounts have been closed may not access the System or play EVE in any manner or for any reason, including through any other Account, without the express written permission of CCP. Users of active accounts may not knowingly allow former users whose Accounts have been closed to use the active user's Accounts.
