WHY DO WE DO REDESIGNS?
EVE is a vast and beautiful universe, yet it was designed in the early 2000s by a very small concept art team in a very different and still fledgling world of 3d graphics. Concept art at the time, like much of the industry, was still done on paper and scanned. During that time EVE was also in a formative state fueled by CCP’s large ambition. It was impossible to know what designs would get cut, what would get repurposed, and how the style would evolve even during those early production days.

Over the years, CCP has grown and evolved to adopt more modern workflows, disciplines have changed to reflect industry practices, and our art style has shifted due to advances in graphics technology. Originally a dark, foreboding universe without complex materials on ships, EVE embraced these limitations with a dark, cyberpunky dystopian art direction. Space was cold and empty. Limitations on texture sizes, reduced polygon counts, and a simple lighting engine meant ships could be incredibly ambiguous with shapes and details, allowing user imagination to take over and fill in the details of these starships. Like many games at the time.

Reimagining this universe and keeping it visually up to date, both in terms of actual asset quality and art direction, has been an ongoing challenge. Since inception, EVE has been a visually stunning game, causing business partners and journalists of 2003 to disbelieve that screenshots were done in-client. Beginning with the Trinity expansion (2008), in which we overhauled our graphics engine, updated our texturing approach to lay the ground work for modern shader techniques, and reworked every new ship design we’d released, our older ships began to show their legacy. They haven’t quite fit in with the new design languages we’d adopted or they suffered from poor conversion during shader model updates.

Ships that have been left behind in these conversions, needs to be updated. Which brings us to the point of this blog – how do you reimagine designs that have been iconic to players and fans for over a decade?
