WHAT’S GOING ON IN OUR HEADS?
My personal approach is to try and figure out some of the history of the ship. The end customer for a redesign in my mind is both an existing player and potential players who have never seen these ships before, and balancing both of those is a highly interesting challenge for an artist. We have to overcome our own personal stylings and tastes and put ourselves in the shoes of someone else who may be incredibly attached to each ship. Like a building renovation, we need to identify what stays and what goes. What does the design emotionally convey? What is the function of the hull in game? How do we pull those out into the forefront even more?

With the Rupture, I spent a fair amount of time talking about the design with players and absorbing their opinions and stories. I had a sketch sheet from the first few days after starting at CCP of random Minmatar ships, trying to figure out their stylings and interesting new ways to arrange them. After showing them to our art director I began to mix them together into some more recognizable Minmatar shapes.



I came back to this after a while and picked one sketch to start building a potential Rupture redesign off. Early on, the most important thing was keeping the aggressive wedge shape with a fairly sturdy rear section that would sit high up and some hull that continued downwards to give the ship it’s iconic vertical presence.



From there I started copy pasting around the basic shape and iterating on it, taking parts out and rearranging them. Here is where we probably made our first change compared to the current Rupture. We knew players, and our artists, liked the transom back (shout out to the dude who taught me that word!) that made it look a bit like an old galleon or pirate ship, and we wanted to carry that theme a bit through the rest of the ship. Compared to the old hull having slightly erratically placed guns, I wanted a battery of guns on each side like it’s big brother, the Tempest. We’d take it one step further by placing them in gun ports that would open as it came out of warp like the Onyx redesign.

You can also see some very early explorations of how we’d “bolt on” some tech 2 geometry for the variants, but in between these sketches and the design going into production, we slightly changed how we handle tech 2 variants by assigning them sections of the texture sheet, and cleanly cutting geometry where we attach them to make sure we have room for larger changes.
