DEPLOYMENT
With the release of the Upwell Refineries, Reactions (of all types) and Moon Mining will become exclusive to these new structures and they will no longer be performed in Player-Owned Starbases (POSes). Details about the changes to Reactions and the Service Modules that will perform these functions can be found in this devblog.

Moon Mining will be exclusive to Refineries when they are deployed in the Moon Mining Location around a viable moon. Full details about this process were listed in this devblog, but to summarize, here are the key points:

Refineries can be deployed in all regions of New Eden, including High Sec and Wormhole space. All Upwell Structures are built and deployed in the same way, with the same deployment location restrictions (not allowed in certain newbie or trade hub systems, must be placed at least 1000 km from other Upwell structures). However, the Moon Mining Drill Service Module cannot be fitted in a Refinery that is not in a valid Moon Mining location.
Every viable moon (every moon in Low Sec and Null Sec space with a few exceptions for the very large moons) now has a specific Moon Mining location. These locations are a new warpable option in the right-click and radial menus for moons: "Warp to moon mining location"
Only one Refinery can be deployed within 250km of the Moon Mining Location and extract moon ores from that moon 
When deploying a Refinery, the UI will inform you if you are in a valid location, if you are in a valid location but cannot moon mine, or if you are in an invalid location:

When the designs for Refineries were first being fleshed out, we knew that tying a single structure to a single moon would amplify some of the combat issues that face other Upwell Structures. With valuable input from the CSM and the feedback they have sourced from the Community, we will be using the introduction of these structures to make a change to the vulnerability of ALL Upwell Structures:

When an Upwell Structure is first deployed, it will enter an initial 15-minute vulnerable state (with the same repair timer mechanics and damage caps) before entering the 24 hour Anchoring state. 
Once anchored, the vulnerability of the structure will match the Vulnerability windows set by its owners.
This will mean that keeping control of the area in which you are planning to deploy your structure is paramount.

Further changes to the Vulnerability and Combat systems of all Upwell Structures are now underway and some early details about these upcoming changes can be found in the EVE Vegas Keynote.

As with all Upwell Structures, the new Refineries will be able to fit all the standard Standup Service Modules, allowing their occupants access to services ranging from Clone Bays to Manufacturing and the other basic services this line includes. 
