VARIATION AND EXPERIMENTATION
Then came the next problem: the design had changed, and trying to recreate some of those early ideas from the 2d concept on this new hull just didn’t look right. I wanted the Muninn and the Broadsword to be even bulkier to reflect their extra tank bonuses. But the base hull we now had, was already so bulky we couldn’t just start adding a ton of mass without interrupting firing angles or covering up what was making the hull interesting. The hollow gun bay also meant we’d used a lot more polygons than we originally wanted, so we were limited by what we could afford from a performance standpoint. From talks with the CSM and players we’ve got a guide line that the Tech-1 hull has to stay conservatively close to the original design, but when we come to our Tech-2 hulls we can go as crazy as we want with deviation.

I spent a few days playing with some really goofy simple 3d additions, trying to find something that had the right character for what I wanted from the Muninn.



























We had to incorporate Brutor curved sails somewhere, and came up with the idea of having one long hanging sail along the front a bit like a bayonet. I also had this idea that i wanted to play off the ship’s role as a ship optimized for long range artillery. While we can’t just make the guns bigger, we can play with some simple shape recognition to get across these ideas. The ship already looked somewhat like a pistol, so we exaggerated that a bit and placed another larger shape on the front like a barrel as well as some extra sensors and targeting equipment. We flattened this shape to give it some fragility, and the high surface area kind of implied it was some over-sized piece of fire control equipment using advanced sensors like the SAAB TP100 AWAC.

We also moved the bridge further down as the new sensors and sails would have blocked any attempt to look out of the previous one.

During this time, we also played with adding on some larger plating. But with the other additions the front began to become way too busy visually. I liked the hanging, spaced armor idea though, so we added these plates to the base t1 which helped visually distinguish it from the t2s.

This plating that we added to these ships needed to serve a more ambiguous role than say, with Amarr. Minmatar ships can be used with shields or armor tanks generally, so behind these armor plates I added lots of texture detail that implies some shield generation or projection role as well. Depending on what the capsuleer fits, it was conceivable these large defense plates could be serving both roles, either as reinforced plating to mitigate incoming damage, or as a large projection surface for reinforced shielding.



Then came the Broadsword. This one was oozing potential for functional elements and plating to reflect it’s incredibly tanky nature. I wanted the front to be entirely composed of an eccentric looking series of generators that would create the warp disruption field that defines the role of interdictors. We made it blockier, and in texturing gave it lots of small, thicker plating to look well defended like a tank. Some of the side-skirt plating came from looking at lots of kitted up Panzer tanks. We also went pretty wild with animations, giving it lots of techy stuff that flips open and unfolds, with two large aggressive tusks at the front that serve to channel and project the warp disruption field.









The Rupture is a bit unique in that it has a unique faction hull variant, the Mimir which was given out for Alliance Tournament 7 winners. We also updated the look of this variant, using the Muninn heavy assault cruiser’s hull and adding the characteristic sails of the ATVII ships as well as an extra pair of boosters.



And finally, to celebrate Tribal Liberation day, the Rupture hull will be launching with the brand-new Firewall Breach skin, sporting the design of the Khumaak, once a symbol of Amarrian power subverted into the most powerful symbol of Minmatar liberation.



We hope everyone will enjoy these new designs once you get your hands on them in the July release.
