ALL THE NUMBERS!
We have posted the most up to date version of all the new Strategic Cruiser and subsystem stats and bonuses in a megathread over on our new forums. Rather than paste all 2500 words here, we will direct everyone to that thread for the specifics and stick to a general highlights list on this blog.

All four Strategic Cruisers now have the ability to unfit rigs without destroying them
All four Strategic Cruisers have gained a new dedicated 120m3 subsystem bay
All four Strategic Cruisers have had their Scan Probe Launcher CPU reduction bonus moved from their old probing subsystem onto the hull itself, making it available no matter your configuration
New overheating bonuses have been added through multiple subsystems to go alongside the pre-existing Strategic Cruiser heat bonuses. These include a reduction in nanite repair paste consumption and improved benefits for overheating repair modules, hardeners, propulsion modules and electronic warfare in various appropriate subsystems.
The former command burst and remote repair roles have been combined into one subsystem in the offensive slot. This subsystem includes range bonuses for remote repair modules, focused on falloff in a similar fashion to the bonuses currently enjoyed by Logistics Frigates.
The Legion missile and drone offensive subsystems have been combined into one extremely powerful brawling platform that enjoys full strength bonuses to both missiles and drones alongside an ample 200m3 dronebay.
Bonuses from both of the old Tengu ECM subsystems have been combined into one subsystem in the core slot that provides bonuses to both ECM strength and range
The Proteus Drone Synthesis subsystem has been upgraded to include bonuses to drone damage, hitpoints, velocity and tracking speed
The Loki defensive subsystems now provide their full-strength bonuses to both shield and armor tanking, providing unprecedented flexibility
The old Loki Hardpoint Efficiency subsystem has been replaced with a truly dedicated missile subsystem in the offensive slot, providing full support for missile-focused Minmatar pilots
Several changes have been made to the industrial requirements for building Strategic Cruisers. All the details can be found here in the forum thread.