CDIA 01

Introducing the Monitor:
We have been gathering feedback from the community for quite some time now about the idea of creating a dedicated ship to combat “headshotting” in large fleet battles. “Headshotting” is the tactic of destroying enemy fleet commanders and other leaders to disrupt the organization of hostile fleets. It’s a clever and effective tactic, but it also has a tendency to prematurely end fights and makes it more difficult for newer fleet commanders to learn the ropes. When we’ve discussed this issues with the community at events like Fanfest and through the CSM the idea of a specialized ship designed to survive at all costs has received widespread support. Such a ship would need to be an effective option for resisting headshot attempts while avoiding becoming so powerful and versatile that it would become the only ship worth commanding from.

The Monitor is the first ship in a new group called “Flag Cruisers”. It will be completely focused on survivability at the expense of all other attributes, intended for players who absolutely need to be able to survive uncloaked in a battle. It has no cargo bay, weapons, or drones.

The only modules it can fit are Afterburners, Microwarpdrives, and Micro Jump Drives. In exchange for these limitations it combines command ship levels of effective hitpoints (including 90%+ base armor and shield resistances) with the signature radius of a frigate and built-in resistances against ECM, sensor dampeners, neutralizers, and target painters. This is a ship that will only be flown by a relatively small number of capsuleers but we know that those players will be providing content for many others.

We are very interested in hearing what you think about this new ship. All the details and discussion can be found in this forum thread.

Looking forward:
Along with the changes above, we had also hoped to ‘fix’ 500mn Heavy Interdictors in this patch. We decided to hold off until we can also ship a new module to replace the mass control for wormholers. Look for that set of changes in the near future. We also aim to keep up the pace on small changes like the ones above to make sure the meta is interesting and dynamic. Please let us know what you think of these changes in the comments thread for this blog and tell us what ships and modules you would like to receive balance passes in the future.

If you'd like to discuss the contents of this dev blog, you can do so in the comments thread over on the EVE Online Forums!

Until next time,

Fly Free!