UI2

Initial Patterns and Problems
At launch, we employed a "training period" system from the previous Project Discovery, where players would be presented with increasingly difficult tasks until they had solved at least one at each difficulty level.

This was used successfully with the Human Protein Atlas without any issues. However, after launching Exoplanets on Tranquility we quickly encountered an issue where players were getting stuck in this training period because they couldn't solve the higher difficulty tasks. This would cause them to get stuck in a loop where they would only be served the higher difficulty tasks we had to offer as they had completed all lower difficulties, and they wouldn’t be able to move onto analyzing unsolved samples.

This resulted in an extremely frustrating experience, with most players having to try and guess their way out of the training period with extremely low accuracy scores.

After investigating the situation, we determined that this was primarily caused by the fact that the most difficult tasks in the Exoplanets project were much more difficult than the most challenging Human Protein Atlas tasks.

We ended up solving this by removing the highest difficulty of task (level 5) from this training period and resetting the accuracy of all players that had dropped below 50%. We decided to only reset those below 50% since anyone above that accuracy rating had proven themselves adept at the task.

These players who were getting stuck in the training set also raised another issue - some of the level 5 difficulty tasks were simply too hard for many of our players to solve at all. Watching the feedback from players and examining the samples they were having trouble with led us to the discovery that some of them were only solvable by looking at other data alongside the curve or by using frequency analysis, since the transits were obscured by the general noise of the sample.

After some discussions with Michel Mayor's team, we concluded that these could safely be excluded, as they couldn't realistically be found by eye and didn't further the scientific goals of the project.

ui3

The Many Paths of Discovery
As some of you know and have pointed out, there are many powerful methods for frequency analysis that already exist such as Fourier Transforms, Least-Squares Spectral Analysis and Box-Fitting Least Squares Algorithms.

So why don’t we use them?

Project Discovery is aimed at compensating for weaknesses inherent in those algorithms, namely their reliance on perfectly periodic data and their ineffectiveness at dealing with noise.

While expecting perfectly periodic data sounds like a fair assumption when dealing with the orbits of planets, systems that include multiple planets in close proximity don't exhibit perfectly periodic orbits, since their gravitational pull affects the orbit of other planets in the same system in a phenomenon known as Transit Timing Variation (TTV).

TTV can create small variances in the period of the transiting planet which severely inhibits the frequency analysis-based algorithms used to automatically search through this data. However, the wobbles are generally small enough that they can still be selected with our marker tool without going outside the allowed margin of error. A visual example of this is shown in this video.

Aside from TTV, there are also two other types of transits where Project Discovery is expected to outperform algorithmic analysis.

Firstly, we have transits in systems with strong stellar activity, where the algorithms can’t get a clean fold, even if the transit can be seen clearly with the naked eye.

Secondly, there are circumbinary planets, which are planets orbiting binary stars. Frequency analysis-based algorithms have trouble with these because the relative position of the stars and the planet can be different each time the planet transits.
