**THE FUTURE**
“And with the force projection changes, we're starting of course earlier that we had maybe planned before to touch sovereignty and so on, and we will just keep rolling with this, in the phases that we're outlined in the devblog about the long-distance travel changes, and I'll just recap them here. The first phase is the changes we are shipping now in Phoebe, and the phase coming after that, which is really starting in 2015 right away, is real changes to nullsec space holding and infrastructure, and as soon as we get to more interesting pieces — we have plans for revamping corporations, alliances, structures, and so on — we also start building towards more ambitious changes to the sandbox gameplay — more things to do, more player-driven infrastructure, just more interesting pieces to play with, with the overall goal to create more things to do for everything from the solo person to small groups, bigger diversity of small groups, as well as the megagroups that you guys organize. So, phase three is really about combining all the new stuff we want to do into a next level of sandbox gameplay in EVE Online.”
-Executive Producer CCP Seagull, EVE Vegas 2014
This blog describes the final state of affairs for what is shipping in Phoebe – barring catastrophe we will not be making further adjustments. We are, however, intending to make follow-up changes immediately following Phoebe’s release if needed, in the December 9th Rhea release as we see how things work out, and in future releases as we continue to work on nullsec issues.
Thanks,
-Greyscale
Appendix A: jump fatigue examples
Bobby Tables makes three 5LY jumps in his Archon.
When he makes the first jump, he has no fatigue or cooldown, so incurs the minimum fatigue value (10 (1+5) = 60 minutes) and the minimum cooldown value (1+5 = 6 minutes).
When he makes the second jump, he has waited for 6 minutes, so his fatigue is 54 minutes before the jump, and 54 (1 + 5) = 324 minutes after. His cooldown would be 5.4 minutes (10% of fatigue), but the minimum is 6 minutes so he has another 6 minute cooldown.
When he makes the third jump, his fatigue is 318 minutes (waiting 6 minutes again), and becomes 318 * (1 + 5) = 1908 minutes. His cooldown is 31.8 minutes, or 31 minutes 48 seconds.
Frankie Flowers has an Ark, and travels 3 jumps of 10LY each. Because he has a bonus, all distances are instead treated as 1LY when calculating fatigue values.
When he makes the first jump, he has no fatigue or cooldown, so incurs the minimum fatigue value (10 (1+1) = 20 minutes) and the minimum cooldown value (1+1 = 2 minutes).
When he makes the second jump, he has waited for 2 minutes, so his fatigue is 18 minutes before the jump, and 18 (1 + 1) = 36 minutes after. His cooldown would be 1.8 minutes (10% of fatigue), but the minimum is 2 minutes so he has another 2 minute cooldown.
When he makes the third jump, his fatigue is 34 minutes (waiting 2 minutes again), and becomes 34 * (1 + 1) = 68 minutes. His cooldown is 3.4 minutes, or 3 minutes 24 seconds.
alt