NULLSEC WORMHOLE CONNECTION AND QUANTUM FLUX GENERATOR CHANGES
One final set of changes that we are implementing in Aegis is a set of tweaks to Nullsec wormhole spawning and Quantum Flux Generator upgrades. Some members of the CSM (I’ll let them identify themselves if they wish) approached us in recent weeks with balance concerns about wormhole travel for Nullsec entities. We took a look at their concerns and decided to make some tweaks to help ease them.
The changes we are making are not intended to kill strategic wormhole travel. We believe that wormhole travel provides an exciting and somewhat unpredictable way to roam across long distances. We are beginning with a set of tweaks to Nullsec wormhole connections in Aegis, intended to ease some of the concerns around WH power projection without negatively impacting wormhole residents or eliminating the ability of Nullsec entities to roam through wormholes.
These changes consist of:
A significant decrease in the spawn rate of direct Nullsec to Nullsec wormhole connections (which are not the primary method of WH roaming travel but are some of the hardest connections to counter with defensive play).
Small decreases in the spawn rate of random Null -> C5 and C5 -> Null connections. This change does not affect static connections.
A decrease in the lifetime of Nullsec WH connections to 16 hours (most were previously 24 hours).
We are also making some slight tweaks to the Quantum Flux Generator system upgrade in our July 14th release. These are intended as a slight buff to anyone who uses Quantum Flux Generators for PVE daytripping, while also addressing concerns expressed by some CSM members. With these changes we still don’t expect that most alliances will find the Quantum Flux Generators to be extremely valuable, but hopefully their PVE value should increase somewhat.
All of the July 14th PVE changes are available for testing on our Duality test server right now! They’ve actually been there for a while but we felt it was a pretty safe assumption that nobody was going to spend their time ratting on the test server without being informed about the changes first.