LOOKING BACK ON THE RESULTS OF PHOEBE AND PHASE ONE ON NULLSEC
Hello calculating capsuleers! This is CCP Fozzie bringing you a dev blog looking back on the power projection and Sovereignty changes from the Phoebe release and Phase One of our ongoing project to revitalize the Nullsec sandbox.
There are actually two connected dev blogs being released this afternoon, both of which are worth reading:
This blog represents a status update and evaluation of Phase One of our Nullsec changes (which released in Phoebe last November) and how they have impacted the game.
I have also written a much larger blog covering the changes we are currently working for Phase Two of the Nullsec and Sov revamp. You can find that blog here.
On October 1st 2014, we released a dev blog covering our plans to begin a major set of changes to improve Nullsec space. In that blog we laid out a high-level medium term plan in three phases. Phase One was implemented with the Phoebe release on November 4th 2014. Phase One consisted largely of significant changes to the speed of long distance travel and power projection, as well as smaller changes to the hitpoints and resistances of Sovereignty structures and balance changes for Interdictors and Heavy Interdictors.
In the October dev blog, we listed four reasons for the changes, and made two (fairly high-level) predictions:
Why this?/Why now?
Nullsec is stagnant and needs a change. This is the first of many steps in our plan.
Big fights are cool, but they’re crowding out more accessible and more frequent smaller ones.
These changes have positive implications for people not involved in sovereignty warfare, for example making use of capitals in lowsec less risky.
We expect the impact of these changes to be emergent, and as a consequence are unpredictable and will take a while to develop on TQ. This plays into our longer-term plans, as you’ll see in a second!
What are the anticipated consequences?
In the short term, we would anticipate a reduction in the degree to which the average non-trivial capital fight escalates, and the number of parties involved. This seems likely to increase the frequency of capitals being deployed in small-scale engagements, in both lowsec and nullsec.
Over the medium term, we see the potential for more substantial changes in the nullsec status quo as the various competing parties work to adjust their internal objectives to the new situation; it seems plausible that the general reduction in travel capabilities will lead to more localism, but we don't want to make any firm predictions in this area. We're confident that these changes improve the overall system of lowsec and nullsec gameplay and take them in better directions, but any set of changes that would allow us to accurately predict their consequences would by their nature be too simple to be interesting for very long.
Today we are unveiling the plans for Phase Two, but as we look to the future of Nullsec it is also important to look back. This blog will show some of the metrics surrounding the Phase One changes and the current state of Nullsec space as we prepare to launch into Phase Two.
Our development team takes multiple approaches to evaluate the effects of any changes to EVE Online.
First, we actively play the game and evaluate how our own experiences change as the design changes. Yes, there are several members of our team playing actively in Sovereignty space. No, I won’t tell you what their character names are. :)
We also have access to many sources of direct player feedback. We read the forums, listen to your stories and requests at player gatherings, chat with members of the Council of Stellar Management (who you should go vote for if you haven’t already) and more.
Finally, we have access to metrics that display the bigger picture of trends in player activity. Using metrics and statistics to reach conclusions must always be done with care (correlation does NOT equal causation), but in a game as huge and diverse as EVE they can be a crucial tool. This last category is one that you as players often lack access to, as when sharing data we must always be wary of the danger that some players might use our information to gain an unfair advantage over others. This blog will focus largely on giving you a glimpse into some of the metrics that we watch to help us judge the effects of Phase One of our Nullsec efforts.
We will split the metrics shown in this blog into four categories, each representing one aspect of our goals for Phoebe and Phase One. These categories are:
Nullsec Population and General Activity
Nullsec PVP Activity
Capital Ship Activity
Sovereignty Conquests
Generally the graphs displayed below are labelled with the date of the Jump Fatigue announcement blog (October 1st 2014) and the date of the Phoebe release (November 4th 2014). The lack of labels on the Y axis is intentional, as we want to minimize the ability of clever players to use this data to gain advantages over others. What I can tell you is that for the unlabelled graphs, the Y axis begin at 0 and increase linearly (no cheating). None of the data in the graphs below is normalized by any other factor.
The distinct time periods that are worth watching are:
The period before the announcement dev blog, representing the older activity patterns
The period between the dev blog and the Phoebe release, when many players were proactively dealing and shifting to prepare for the post-Phoebe game
The period after the Phoebe release, after which Phase One is in effect
Without further ado, let’s jump into the discussion!