CONVERSION AND NEW SKIN PLANS
The general conversion plans will give you a SKIN if you had a Blueprint perviously, or a SKIN and base ship if you had a skinned ship. If you do not have the ship at the time of conversion (ex. you sold it or it was blown up) you will not receive a SKIN. The conversion process is as follows:
Skinned ships will become a base version of the same and a SKIN item for that skin will be added to the owning players redeeming queue. For example: If you have a Megathron Quafe Edition you will get a standard Megathron in the same location as the original, and 1 Megathron Quafe SKIN (Permanent) item placed in your redeeming queue.
Skin Blueprints will become a number of SKINs equal to the number or runs remaining on the blueprint. They will all be placed in the redeeming queue. For example: If you have an Abaddon Tash-Murkon Edition 10 Run Blueprint you will receive 10 Abaddon Tash-Murkon SKIN (Permanent) items in your redeeming queue.
Skinned Ships and blueprints which are located in a corporation owned location will find the new SKINs in their HQ deliveries hangar. Ships will not move.
Skin blueprints that drop in game will become time-limited SKINs that last 30 days once activated.
Pirate ships which are skinned through blueprints that drop in-game (4 destroyers, 4 battlecruisers) will become the base ship and 1 time-limited version of the SKIN.
Any special edition ships or BPCs in the market or contracts will be cancelled and refunded the ISK it cost to put them up. The ships and BPC's will then be converted over as normal.
Codes and referral packs which reference ship skins, or skin items in your redeeming queue will provide a copy of the SKIN equivalent when redeemed.
Ship skins BPCs in your redeeming queue will be converted into SKINs in your redeeming queue.
Any SKINs in general, which are given to you under this conversion will be put in your redeeming queue.
As a way to reward early adopters of the Ship Paint Pilot Program, and in preparation for the new SKIN system release, all existing skin Blueprints will no longer be purchasable from the NES as of the publication of this dev blog.