DUALITY PLAYTEST
For the past few weeks we have opened the Duality test server with an in-development version of the new sov system so that players could try it out and help us refine the user experience and find bugs. We also put together a playtest competition in which Alliances could fight over Sovereignty of a region to gain bragging rights and cosmetic rewards. We want to express our thanks to every player who has taken the time to log onto Duality and help submit bug reports and feedback on the new system. You’ve all been a huge amount of help.
We want to congratulate all the Alliances who fought for Providence on Duality over this last month.
The final score for each alliance is obtained by adding one point for each of the three core Sovereignty structures (TCU, IHub, and Station) that they control within the competition area.
Fourteen alliances entered the competition and were each given a starting constellation within Providence or Catch. When all was said and done five alliances remained.
Every alliance that participated in the playtest will have their name added to the description of the Entosis Link I blueprint original, as notable capsuleer alliances that led the way in discovering visionary applications of the new technology.
The final scores are:
Pandemic Legion: 198
Spectre Fleet Alliance: 40
No Not Believing: 35
Affirmative.: 22
Fidelas Constans: 7
In a future release we will be listing all the competing alliances in the description of the Entosis Link I BPO, with a special mention for PL as the most successful testers.
We have also drawn four of these five alliances for another special honor, having meta variations of the Entosis Link named after them. The winners of this draw were selected with Chribba’s dice. All the details on how this selection process was executed can be found in this forum post.
The default naming convention for the new Entosis Link variations will be to include the alliance ticker of the winning alliances as the “flavor” name. We will be open to considering alternate suggestions from the winning alliances, but those suggestions will be subject to approval by CCP’s development team and will only be accepted if we determine that the names fit into the EVE universe. Direct references to other intellectual property will not be accepted for obvious reasons. You know who you are.
The alliances drawn for the module naming are:
Pandemic Legion, Spectre Fleet, No Not Believing, and Affirmative.
We’ll be in touch with your team captains and alliance executors to discuss the details.
Thanks once again to everyone who participated on Duality so far, and remember that Duality remains open for people to keep trying out the new system right up until release.
Thanks for taking the time to read this update blog, and I hope it’s been informative. We’ll be continuing our communication over the next week as we prepare to launch this huge revamp of EVE’s Sovereignty capture system on July 14th. We have one more blog full of announcements coming later this week, and after release we will be continuing our iteration on Nullsec and Sovereignty with help from your feedback. Huge thanks to everyone who has provided us with your feedback so far!
From all of us at Team Five 0 and Team Pirate Unicorns, fly safe!