PICK ON A BULLY YOUR OWN SIZE
As mentioned during the Fanfest presentation and associated Dev Blog, structures are sorted in various shape and sizes. Citadels are no exception.
Medium sized Citadel structures will be around 5-25km in diameter and are tailored for individual or small groups of players. They will be able to fit some appropriate defenses to offer resistance against most kind of assaults including capital ships. Moreover, players can dock inside them with sub-capital ships.
Large sized Citadel structures will be around 25-50km in diameter and are made for corporations or even small alliances. They will offer more advanced functionality over medium-sized Citadels, mainly in the form of area of effect (AoE) defenses and facilities that are more tailored to support large fleets. While players will be able to dock with sub-capitals, capitals are still up to debate at this point.
X-Large sized Citadel structures will be around 100km in diameter and are specialized for high-end alliance gameplay. On top of the mechanics listed above, they will have the best defensive options to face against particularly large groups and allow capital ships to be docked (even maybe supercapitals--to be discussed).
Most if not all of those structures will have a replacement for the current Starbase forcefield with the use of the invulnerability link (final name to be discussed), which will ensure safety for friendly ships within a specific radius. This will not cause your ship to stay in space when logging off.
Sizes also determine their release order.
We will start by focusing on Medium and Large Citadels, since we believe they offer gameplay that extends to most player groups. They also are a lot simpler than X-Large Citadels to design and implement.
When Medium and Large Citadels are out and we have gained some experience through them, we will then deploy the X-Large variation which offer much more challenge in their conception due to their humongous sizes and intended use cases.