FIRE ZE MISSILES
We have established Citadels need to be able to take care of themselves in a fight.
As such they should:
Repel trolling attempts from a single player trying to capture them with an Entosis module
Act as force multipliers to deal with attacking fleets and promote asymmetric warfare (less defenders are required than attackers)
Have engagement inertia, meaning they require time to acquire and switch targets
Require support from defending fleets to successfully fend off attacks
While structure weapon systems will deal considerable amount of damage to compensate for their static nature, most of them will require Electronic Warfare assistance from defending ships to be fully operational (like Stasis Webifiers or Target Painters).
While Citadel structures are specialized in repelling attacks (through specific bonuses and attributes), keep in mind most structures will be able to fit defensive options--if they have enough slots and fittings of course.
With that in mind, let’s have a look at what we are planning so far for defensive modules. Also remember this remains work in progress and is susceptible to change.
Single Target Weapons
They are either going to be turrets or missiles (or maybe even a combination of both) which can be fitted in M, L and X-L structures, but only exist in 2 variations based on their role. Unlike ship weapons, they will not exist in multiple sizes themselves – we’ve investigated that option but felt it was not worth the small variety it brought next to the extensive design, technical and skill training costs.
One long range weapon, primarily meant to take down large and slow ships, like battleships or capitals. Can be fitted with ammunition that reduces range but increases damage proportionally.
One short-medium range weapon, best at taking down smaller threats, but doing considerably less damage. Can be fitted with ammunition that reduces range but increases application proportionally.
They are going to require a new line of skills to operate, but most likely use existing gunnery and / or missile support skills. More details as we get them.
Launcher With Area of Effect Missiles
This particular weapon type is going to revive the torpedoes of old since they release an AoE blast on impact. They are meant to be particularly effective against fleets that cluster together.
They can be fitted in L and X-L structures only and be loaded with blast charges aimed to either take down slow and large ships or small and fast ones.
An extra option is to use energy draining missiles which make them work like targeted bombs.
Please note this launcher won’t be available for high-security space structures since they make no distinction between friends or foes.
Energy Neutralizers
Energy Neutralizers are part of the utility high-slot suite of defensive modules and drain capacitor from the targeted ships. Their effect works exactly in the same manner as their ship module counterparts. They remain available for L and X-L structures.
Two variations exist:
The first with a  short cycle and small drain amount, again aimed for sub-capital targets.
Another with a very long cycle and large drain amount intended to be used against capital ships.
Drone and Fighters
We are planning for structure to have drones as of one of their available weapon systems. Number and various bonuses given are going to vary depending on the structure type and size – larger ones could be focused towards fighter and fighter-bombers instead of regular drone for instance, but this is pretty much open at this point.
Electronic Warfare
Structures will be able to fit their specific variations of Electronic Warfare modules we all know and love. They include, but are not limited to: ECM, remote sensor dampening, stasis webifiers, tracking disruptors, target painters and warp disruption. We are considering the introduction of area of effect variations of those modules later on.
Single target modules will be available for all sizes and locations, while AoE effects will most likely be restricted by size and security status.
Point Defense Batteries
This particular module will be similar to a smartbomb – by doing a certain amount of area of effect damage to anything close to the structure. As they are intended to clear drones or small deployable clutter near the structure undock points, they will have a constant damage but low reach.
This will only be available for large and X-Large structures and cannot be used in high-security space.
Structure Doomsday Weapon
The Doomsday weapon will only be available on the X-Large structure, and have a similar purpose to the ones installed on Titans. However, it will have extra capabilities next to its ship counterpart to compensate for the single, static nature of the structure on the field.
For instance, we are considering a weapon that bounces off multiple times after hitting its main target, a bit like another weapon we’ve shown in the past.
Available on sizes
Available in High-sec
Variations
Single target weapons