EXAMPLE
Since that’s a lot of information explained in a blog, let’s use an example to make sure everyone grasps the fine details of this feature.
The Tasty Fougasse Republic™ is a corporation that operates a Citadel XL structure in EC-P8R. It has the following properties:
Let’s hypothetically say the structure is worth 15 billion ISK in materials to build, and has rigs worth another 85 billion ISK. It is also fitted with structure modules and defenses.
5 jobs are running, 1 is a titan being manufactured, the rest are related to blueprint research.
It has ships, items, blueprints located in the corporation hangar of the Citadel XL structure worth 200 billion ISK (calculated from average market value), which includes a Nyx being stored there.
It has many players docked, some of them inactive, but with items stored in their own personal hangars. Let’s take a guinea pig, Mrs. Madeleine Truffade, who has 1 billion ISK stored in assets in her personal hangar at that particular Citadel XL structure. She is docked in the structure in a Megathron, and has implants plugged in her brain.
All goes well in the life of the Tasty Fougasse Republic™ until a rival corporation, the Wild Fish’n’Chips Warband™ comes along and destroys the Citadel XL after 3 vulnerability cycles.
The following will happen:
The structure turns into a wreck. A percentage of the 15 billion ISK materials used in its construction are moved back into the wreck. They can be recovered through salvaging.
Structure module and defenses drop as loot for anyone to take it. Some of it may be destroyed as that follows the same exact rules than for ship loot.
Structure rigs are lost forever, which is a 85 billion ISK loss.
A percentage of the materials used to build the titan will drop as loot. Blueprints are not affected. This again follows the same rules as standard loot mechanics.
All items located in the corporation hangar divisions are impounded. Items are kept inside containers but lose password protection and are saved for a person with sufficient roles within the Tasty Fougasse Republic™ to deliver.
All players that were docked in the structure are podded. Mrs. Madeleine Truffade loses her implants and is moved to her medical home station, Duripant VII – Moon 6 – Federal Navy Academy. All items located in personal hangars are saved for their owners to claim. This includes Madeleine’s Megathron. A notification will be sent to Madeleine explaining what happened.
To reclaim the corporation items, someone with sufficient roles can:
Pay 20 billion ISK (10% fee of 200 billion ISK) to have corporate items moved to Anin, the closest 0.4 solar system with NPC stations. The exact station picked will be the closest one to the destroyed structure. Items can be selected on a one by one basis if the person doesn’t want or cannot pay the full 20 billion ISK fee. Furthermore, a 6 days delay is imposed before items are moved to the destination. The Nyx will not be moved however, as it is a supercapital ship and is not eligible to be moved to a NPC station. It can only be recovered with the option below.
Build another Citadel in EC-P8R and reconnect it to the lost assets. No fee will need to be paid in that case, but a minimum time delay of 5 days will still be in place. Note that by doing so, all corporation members will also be able to deliver their own personal items without further hassle. The Nyx can only be delivered if the new Citadel structure is of an XL size, as it would not fit in a M or L class.
Please note the Tasty Fougasse Republic™ cannot tamper with Madeleine Truffade’s personal hangar items or deliver them on her behalf. Those are hers and hers alone.