YOUR MISSION IF YOU CHOOSE TO ACCEPT IT: MEDIUM BURNER MISSIONS
When we introduced the first Burner Missions last year and the second round a few months later, we were very glad to see players enjoying the challenge provided by these extremely difficult missions. Burners are special rare missions with increased reward, much higher difficulty, and with no penalty for declining or failing. The first sets of missions were unique in that they only allowed frigate-sized ships entry, providing an optional challenge for mission runners looking for an occasional change of pace.
We’re now ready to return to these disparate groups of elite freelance pirates and this time their bases can be accessed by cruisers and battlecruisers. The next round of Burner missions will also be more distinct from each other, with unique gameplay mechanics and combat environments for each mission.
In the Mosaic release we will be adding the first two of these new Burner Missions.
One mission will challenge you to hunt down a group of three Serpentis Corporation elite test pilots who went rogue and stole new experimental ship technology. Entering their base will drop you in the center of a minefield of proximity-activated defense turrets. Getting within 10km of any individual turret will activate it and add extra damage that you’ll need to deal with. Defeating these pirates will require successfully navigating the field of turrets while managing your transversal against their advanced long range weapons.
The second mission will pit you against a charismatic captain who broke away from the Blood Raider Covenant and has begun collecting fanatical followers. Defeating her supercharged Ashimmu will require building a ship capable of operating under extreme Nosferatu pressure and breaking her excellent tank. Her followers complicate matters by dealing a different damage type and using tracking disruptors.
We hope you enjoy these new missions and we look forward to releasing more to you in the upcoming releases.
All of the features mentioned in this blog are available for you to try out on our Singularity test server right now. We hope you have enjoyed this blog and we look forward to getting all these features and more to you in our Mosaic release on April 28th. Fly safe!