BROWSERS
The Hulls & Fits browser will allow you to browse all the ships and structures available to you. It also includes all your fittings for each of the hulls, and by activating the personal and corporation fittings filter at the top of the list, you can choose to view only those hulls you have saved fittings for.
The Hardware browsers helps players find and discover modules available on the market and easily preview how they impact the hull by simply hovering the mouse over them. When a module is previewed, the stats in the fitting window are updated and colored green or red, depending on whether the change is positive or negative.
At the top of the browser there are several filters that will help you narrow down your options when searching for equipment for your hull. Some of them are rather self-explanatory, but other could do with bit of explanation
Low slots
Mid slots
High slots
Rigs slots
Drones
Hull restrictions
Using this filter will filter out all equipment that for some reason or another is not allowed on your hull
This filter is on by default, helping narrow down the options for the hull you are working on
Resources
Filters out modules based on their CPU, powergrid and calibration requirements. This filter relies on simulating each of the modules to get accurate values, and is therefore only available while in simulation mode. The first time it runs, it may take a few seconds to complete, but after that it should be near instant until hull, rigs or skills change.
This filter has 2 modes: Total resources and remaining resources, and you can switch between the modes through a right click option.
Total resources (default): Filters out all modules that given current rigs and skills, will never function on the hull you are working on. This will help filter out modules that you can fit, but don't have enough CPU or powergrid output on the hull to ever online.
Remaining resources: Filters out any module that requires more CPU, powergrid or calibration than the simulated hull has available, based on its current fit. This should help out when you're designing a tight fit.
Skills
When on, it will filter out all the equipment you do not have the skills to use. While in an Alpha clone state, this will filter out any modules that require Omega state
.