HONORABLE MENTIONS
MarketBot: God we love and hate the developer of this. We love him for creating such an amazing application that some of us now have installed our phones and hate him for not including the MIT license and therefor being disqualified. If you have an Android phone we highly recommend checking MarketBot out.
Reset: For those that fly on NPSI roams this would be a really useful tool. It fetches a list of corporation and alliance contacts and then sets them all to neutral for your character and since character contacts override corporation and alliance you can now go on an NPSI roam without fear of shooting blues! When you're done the website resets your contacts back to how they were before and you get to hope your alliance and corporation diplomats agree that shooting blues is how New Eden life is meant to be!
Dynamic Exploration Route Planner (DERP): This was a great little entry. It targets a specific task and makes a minimal but very complete tool to solve the problem. Definitely something a few of us at the office will be actively using. This is the first project the author has distributed to the public, and definitely one to be proud of.
EVE Online Atlas: Atlas uses a really cool technique based on chatlog scraping to allow users to control a browser based information dashboard using chat commands inside the EVE client. This one generated a lot of buzz around the office, and definitely takes the prize for "most awesome hack"!
pizza-auth-3: This stood out as one of the entries which implemented a planned feature ahead of time, out of client. In this case, the contact groups system. By itself that wouldn't be all too impressive, but it also combines this with the location API to provide location+group aware notifications, as well as providing a LDAP authentication layer for use with other alliance services. It is a highly technical entry, the scope of which would only be useful to a select few who run their alliance IT infrastructure. But if you happen to be one of those people, this app could really tie your alliance services together. 
EVE Fitting Bot: Ever been on your corporation or alliances chat service outside the game and had someone request a fit for a ship? If you were in the game you could just link them the perfect fit you have saved but what about out of game? That is where this bot comes in, if you're using Discourse that is. It allows you to quickly and easily get a list of your fits from game and display them as an EFT fit right in chat.
OSXNeocom: Neocom is an awesome little OSX app for managing your characters skill queues, PI installations, looking up prices on the market, and a fitting tool. The way the fitting tool splits up modules by slot type is really intuitive, and the way it uses CREST to store and send fittings to the client makes it easier than ever to share/modify fits between your characters. This app has a ton of polish and is definitely worth checking out if you have a mac.
For a full list of all entries see this spreadsheet.