ORBIT CAMERA
The Orbit camera (ALT+2) is active by default when you first enter the game and is fixed on orbiting around an object in space. You can switch to a new object by performing the “Look At” command on that object. This camera is designed to give the player a somewhat cinematic feeling and try to emphasize things like scale and speed while behaving pretty similar to the old camera in other regards.
Features:
Dynamic Field of view (FOV), decreased as you zoom in, providing a much more epic sense of scale and a wider view angle when zoomed out for better overview of the action.
Ship position on screen is offset based on the speed vector of your ship, giving a much improved sense of speed and trajectory.
Smoother, yet faster zooming/orbiting, accompanied with a new camera speed setting in the system menu (this applies to all camera modes). Zooming now follows an exponential curve so you can zoom out all the way really quickly, while maintaining nice granularity close to the ship.
When looking at other ships, camera is allowed to drift slowly, making it very easy to set up super cool fly-by shots. Drifting can be temporarily disabled by holding down the left mouse button for a steady view when you need to take a closer look. When looking at your own ship, we allow an almost negligible amount of drift to achieve a subtle parallax effect as the nebula moves by ever so slowly.
Manual FOV zoom by holding ALT while zooming. Dolly zoom by holding CTRL while zooming.
Tracking now works in the same way as all other in-space commands work instead of having a special mode toggled on/off previously; you either click the new “Track” button in the “Selected Item” window, radial menu or right click menu. The shortcut key for Tracking is still the same though; C. The tracking camera implementation has also changed so that we now always keep the tracked object center-screen, while pushing the foreground object to the side as we zoom in.
New chase mode is activated by tracking the ship you’re already looking at, locking the camera straight behind your ship. This mode works amazingly well with manual flight! If you’re already looking at your own ship, this mode can be triggered by pressing the ship HUD Orbit Camera button again, or using the corresponding shortcut.
The “Look at” command is now also available for items far away, but instead of the camera travelling light years, we just rotate it in place so the object is centered at the screen, which is very handy for, say, directional scanning.