FUTURE IMPROVEMENTS
Earlier we mentioned that we aim to reduce our first reply time for all tickets to within 36 hours. We have some upcoming changes to Customer Support over the next few months, some of which will be visible to EVE players and some of which are internal to the department.
Most of the improvements needed to provide better support are on us to complete. But there are some things that you can do to help us out:
Provide all the basic information you think may be useful to a GM. We regularly get tickets from players who want a reimbursement for a ship loss. But they don’t include the name of the character who lost the ship or the ship type. This means that instead of being able to investigate the loss the GM has to ask for the information, which means a delay in resolving the ticket. 
Please don't submit duplicate tickets about the same issue. We genuinely understand that if you don’t hear back from us then the natural inclination is to ask for an update, sometimes through submitting another ticket. Submitting more than one ticket about the same issue can impact reply times for you and other players. We humbly ask that only one ticket about an issue be submitted.
If you have an issue which affects multiple members in your corporation or alliance, then please get a representative (preferably a director or CEO) to contact us on behalf of the affected players rather than having all affected players submit a ticket. Generally, we have to speak to a director or CEO anyway when dealing with corporation or alliance issues so it just makes sense for one person to contact us.  
Bumping tickets does not improve a ticket reply time. We just wanted to mention this because we do see players regularly send replies to their ticket with the intention to ‘bump’ it to the top of the queue. This effectively does nothing to the tickets place in the queue.
Finally, on behalf of every GM in the department, we just wanted to thank you the players for making the game what it is. We look forward to talking to you via tickets or in person at Fanfest or one of our awesome player gatherings.
Fly safe!
o7
GM Ender
Director of Customer Support 