LICENSE
A. Software License
Subject to the terms of the EULA, CCP grants you a limited, non-exclusive, revocable license to use the Software and its accompanying documentation solely in connection with accessing the System in order to play EVE using a single valid Account.
For each valid Account you maintain, you may install a copy of the Software on, and access the System from, a single computer or Game platform, and from a secondary computer if you so choose. You must purchase a separate license to the Software for each additional Account you register; e.g., if you have 2 Accounts, you must have 2 licensed copies of the Software. You may not use more than one Account with a single licensed copy of the Software.You must purchase a separate license to the Software for each additional Account you register; e.g., if you have 2 Accounts, you must have 2 licensed copies of the Software. You may not use more than one Account with a single licensed copy of the Software. You may make one (1) copy of the Software for backup or archival purposes.
B. License to Access the System to Play the Game
Upon establishing a valid Account, and subject to your continued compliance with the EULA, CCP grants you a limited, non-exclusive, revocable license to access the System, and to access and use the Game Content and User Content (each as defined below), in order to play EVE online. You may download (and, to the extent permitted by the System, make a single copy for your own purposes in playing the Game) and exchange Game Content and User Content exclusively via a valid Account, solely to play the Game, for purposes permitted by, and in a manner consistent with, the EULA.
C. Specific Restrictions
Any and all rights not expressly granted by CCP herein are reserved, and no license, permission or right of access or use not granted expressly herein shall be implied.
You may not intercept for any purpose other than playing EVE in accordance with the EULA any information accessible through the System. You may not access the System or upload, download or use information accessible through the System, other than as permitted by the EULA.
You may not copy (except as set forth above), distribute, rent, lease, loan, modify or create derivative works of, adapt, translate, perform, display, sublicense or transfer the Software or any documentation accompanying the Software. You may not transfer the Software, except as part of a permitted Account Transfer as described above, if permitted by the EULA then in effect. If the Software is an update, any transfer must include the update and all prior revisions.
You may not copy, distribute, rent, lease, loan, modify or create derivative works of, adapt, translate, perform, display, sublicense or transfer any information accessible through the System, including without limitation, any part of the Game Content or User Content, or any item, object or character in your Account, except that, solely to the extent permitted by the System, you may modify certain Game Content and User Content only for your own purposes in playing the Game.
You may not reverse engineer, disassemble or decompile, or attempt to reverse engineer or derive source code from, all or any portion of the Software, or from any information accessible through the System (including, without limitation, data packets transmitted to and from the System over the Internet), or anything incorporated therein, or analyze, decipher, "sniff" or derive code (or attempt to do any of the foregoing) from any packet stream transmitted to or from the System, whether encrypted or not, or permit any third party to do any of the same, and you hereby expressly waive any legal rights you may have to do so. If the Software and/or the System contains license management technology, you may not circumvent or disable that technology.
D. Software Updates
CCP may from time to time update or otherwise modify the Software electronically. You hereby grant CCP permission to: (i) extract hardware system profile data from your computer; (ii) extract information from your computer's file directories pertaining to the Game and your ability to access the System; (iii) download to your computer content and Game files and any data related to the operation of the Game. The foregoing applies to any computer from which you log into the System using your Account.
E. New Releases of the Software
You are not entitled to receive any new releases of the Software, or any expansion packs, updates, upgrades or similar products under the EULA, but CCP may, in its sole discretion, offer any or all of the foregoing to you. CCP may update, upgrade or otherwise enhance the Software at any time, in its sole discretion, without obligation to you. Periodically, CCP will require all users to migrate to new releases of the Software in order to continue accessing the System and playing EVE. You will be informed when a new release is available and will have a period of time in which to procure and install the new release. You must install and use the new release before the period of time has lapsed to continue accessing the System and playing EVE. If you fail to install the new release when required, CCP shall not be responsible in any way for your inability to access the System or play EVE, and you shall not be entitled to receive a refund of any prepaid fees or any other form of compensation. New releases could be offered to you at a discounted price.