MODULE AND RIG LIST
We have listed most of the structure modules and rigs that will be shipped in the first release in the “Building your Citadel, one block at a time” blog. Now is the time to give you more details on what those modules actually do.
As usual, please note all names and numbers are subject to change based on time and playtests.
Service slots
Market Hub: provides Market service to the structure. Cannot be fitted on Astrahus. Market orders are region wide, except in Wormhole space where they are system wide
Cloning Center: provides medical and jump clone capabilities to the structure. Cloning Centers in Wormhole space structures will not allow players to jump clone back into the system, but can be used to swap clones around
Reprocessing Plant: provides reprocessing capabilities to the structure
Compression Plant: provides compression capabilities to the structure
High-slots
Anti-capital Launcher: launcher fitted with missiles dedicated at taking capitals and supercapitals down. Their large explosion radius and poor explosion velocity are not suited for shooting subcapital ships.
Anti-subcapital Launcher: launcher capable of using missiles made for shooting subcapital ships. Opposite of the Anti-capital Launcher listed above.
Guided Bomb Launcher: uses guided bombs, which combine the tracking nature of missiles with the damaging area of effect of bombs. Has three ammunition types, one aimed at taking battleships down, another focused on killing frigates, and the last one having a capacitor draining effect
Large / X-Large Energy Neutralizer: works exactly the same way than regular ship Energy Neutralizers. However, this specific module has a much larger amount of neutralized capacitor, capable of threatening capitals and crippling battleships
Small / Medium Energy Neutralizers: same effect as above, but aimed against smaller ships.
Point Defense Batteries: not to be confused with the flak missiles, this weapon generates AoE damage all around the structure, primarily to deal with enemy drones or frigates
Ship Tractor Beam: a variation of the standard tractor beam. However it pulls ships instead of wrecks closer to the structure. The Ship Tractor Beam does not warp scramble its target however, which may cause it to align faster or slower depending on the angle on which it is pulled
Arcing Vorton Projector: structure Doomsday module. Fires a beam of energy on the primary target, which then bounces on the five closest additional targets.
As a side-note, the various missiles shot from the structure launchers will either have high hitpoints or be invulnerable to attack to minimize firewall tactics. This will be decided during playtests. We are also going to increase all capital ship signature radius to at least 10km to account for the structure missiles listed above.
Med-slots
Bumping module: causes all ships around the target to be bumped away at speeds based on their respective masses. Imagine being bumped by several raging Machariels and you will have a good idea on how this module operates
Multi-spectrum ECM: equivalent to ship ECM in almost every way, except its racial strength can be changed through scripts
Remote Sensor Dampener: works in the same fashion as its ship counterpart
Stasis Webifier: works in the same fashion as its ship counterpart
Tracking Disruptor: works in the same fashion as its ship counterpart
Target Painter: works in the same fashion as its ship counterpart
Warp Scrambler: works in the same fashion as its ship counterpart
Low-slots
Ballistic Control System: increases Anti-capital, Anti-subcapital missiles and Guided Bombs damage and rate of fire
Guidance Enhancer: improves explosion radius and velocity of Anti-capital missiles, anti-subcapital missiles and Guided Bombs
Co-Processor: increases structure CPU at the expense of powergrid
Signal Amplifier: increases structure maximum locked targets and scan resolution
Reactor Control Unit: increases structure powergrid at the expense of CPU
Rigs:
Structure rigs will work a bit differently from ship rigs. While they require calibration and a matching structure hull size to be fitted, it will not be possible to fit more than one rig that affects the same attribute twice. For example, while you could fit the Medium Missile Application I and Medium Missile Projection I from the list below, it is not possible to fit both a Medium Missile Application I rig and the Medium Missile Application II rig on the Astrahus, or even two  Medium Missile Application I rigs.
Another difference is that structure rig bonuses will vary based on the solar system security-status of the structure they’re in. As such, low-security, null-security and wormhole spaces will always receive better rig bonuses compared to high-security structures. This is made to preserve the various changes in gameplay in those different areas.
Finally, rigs of different sizes will offer the same bonuses, but will cover more or less attributes. For instance, while a Medium Missile Application I rig would offer 10% increase missile explosion velocity, the Large Missile Application and Projection I rig will still give a 10% increase to missile explosion velocity while also increasing missile velocity by 10% at the same time.
There may be exceptions to this – for instance the reprocessing rigs below do not follow this pattern as we want to preserve existing reprocessing differences between structure types.