CLARIFICATIONS ON MESSAGING
With EVE Online Ascension, we cleared out the list of safe locations in order to enable this new system, which resulted in all pilots receiving an initial request for a verification code. Unfortunately, there was some confusion regarding the new system due to the fact that a significant number of pilots received emails that mentioned the optional authenticator service, leading them to believe that we had made this mandatory. This is not the case, and the authenticator is still an optional feature that pilots can utilize at their own discretion.
In addition to this, the call for pilots to verify their email addresses came just a week or so before the deployment of these new features for internal reasons, and not everyone was able to verify or update their email address in time.
We should have communicated these changes way earlier and with several warnings before launching this change, and we should have given you a blog like this explaining the changes up-front, not after the fact. We apologize for any confusion or any inconvenience that these communication issues might have caused, and have now rectified the text in the emails that are sent out with verification codes in them when an account is logged in from a new location.
There is also some outdated terminology that is being used on our account management webpages that we will be rectifying in an account management update early next week to further clarify these new systems.
Our customer support team is working hard to resolve cases related to these new security systems, and we have drafted in a significant number of extra staff to assist. We hope that we’ll be able to reach every affected pilot very soon and resolve any login issues that pilots are still experiencing. We will also compensate missed Omega clone state time for anyone locked out that they are assisting.
We urge anyone having issues with logging in to EVE Online to check the following Help Center articles to see if they can be of any assistance.
Creating & Validating A New Account
Email Verification For Existing Accounts
Existing Account Recovery
Ascension Known Issues & Solutions
If you have a ticket open with Customer Support and are waiting for a response relating to an issue related to these systems, our Customer Support team will be with you as soon as possible. If you are experiencing login issues or issues with validating your email address, and the above knowledgebase articles do not help in resolving the problem, please file a support ticket through the help center and our Customer Support team will be more than happy to assist.
@CCP_Falcon