PRIVACY AND USE OF PERSONAL INFORMATION
Please note that the terms of CCP’s privacy policy will apply in addition to the terms of this Section 7.  The Privacy policy is available at //community.eveonline.com/support/policies/privacy-cookies-policy-en
A. Communications
Except for certain information in your Account (discussed below), all transmissions by you to the System are not private. You acknowledge and agree that you have no expectation of privacy regarding communications you make in the Game, whether through private in-Game messaging, during chat, or in chat rooms. CCP and/or its designated affiliates and representatives may monitor communications made by or received from you. You should not provide private information to any other player in the Game. CCP shall not be responsible for the consequences of any such disclosure by you.
You may encounter and converse with people who are rude, offensive, belligerent, and who may use indecent, obscene, and/or threatening or harassing language while playing the Game or otherwise interacting within EVE.  You may report any instances of such behavior to CCP. CCP will investigate and take such measures as CCP, in its sole judgment, determines are reasonable under the circumstances. CCP does not guarantee that you will not encounter behavior of others that you may view as insulting, demeaning, offensive, threatening or harassing. You assume all risk associated with playing the Game, and CCP assumes no responsibility for the conduct of any other players, and shall not be liable to you or any other person for their conduct.
B. Use of Personal Information
You may verify and update your Account information by logging into your Account through the account management page within the Game.
Definitions
The term “User Personal Details” means information relating to your personal Account details, including your email address, profile name or other online identification, first name, last name, age, date of birth, country of residence, preferences and settings including communication or content restrictions and parental control settings, other account information such as friend’s lists, block lists, and language selection, any dates the foregoing data is modified, and any other information relating to your Account.
The term “User Gameplay Information” means any information relating to your play or use of the Game, including of your gameplay statistics, preferred strategies, in-Game transaction history and trends, history of technical issues and support usage, and history of contributed and received User Content.
User Personal Details and User Gameplay Information together constitute “User Data”.
Collection and Use of User Personal Details
You acknowledge and agree that CCP may collect and store User Personal Details and use them for the limited purposes of: (i) verification or authentication of a user’s identity, (ii) establishing an Account with CCP, (iii) the provision of services to users, such as gameplay, Game administration, and technical support, and (iv) marketing and offering CCP products and services to you.  Any storage or use of User Personal Details will be subject to compliance with CCP’s privacy policy, which may be found at //community.eveonline.com/support/policies/privacy-cookies-policy-en/.
Collection and Use of User Gameplay Information
You acknowledge and agree that CCP may collect and store User Gameplay Information about you, both as an individual and aggregated with the User Gameplay Information of other users of the Game and the System.  In addition, you acknowledge and agree that CCP may analyze and use such User Gameplay Information for the purposes of review, research, development, maintenance, operation, administration, and support, and for the marketing of CCP products and services.
Transfer and Sharing of User Data
You agree that CCP may transfer, share, and/or store your User Data:
outside the European Economic Area where reasonably necessary to administer, operate  maintain and support the Game and the System;
in particular, to the US and China for the purpose of managing customer support and technical issues; and
with suitable third parties under a binding duty of confidentiality in order for such third parties to carry out the limited activities of CCP permitted by this Section 7.
All transfer, storage, and use of User Data shall at all times be subject to CCP’s current privacy policy for the Game from time to time.