APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS
If you are planning to run, here is the information you need:
Application period starts at 12:00 GMT on January 15th, 2016
All applications must be submitted through an application form, that will be available here (please note that this page will not be available until January 15th): //community.eveonline.com/community/csm/apply-for-csm
To apply your account must be older than 60 days (created no later than the 15th of November, 2015)
Only active accounts will be eligible for applying
If upon a security check any breach of EVE Online EULA\ToS will be found – application will be rejected. It is required that personal information is up to date in the account management system (real life name and date of birth).
To become an eligible candidate, a player must be 18 years of age or older, unless the legal age of majority in your home country is higher than 18, in which case the minimum age is the age of majority.
The applicant must consent to provide their personal information to CCP. A CSM candidate can publish their personal information to the player base at their own discretion. On the application page field “Country” is visible publicly. But the following information is only visible to CCP staff and will not be revealed by CCP.
Applicant must provide a copy of a valid, internationally recognized identity document to CCP. This is required to confirm identity of the candidate and to prove the ability to sign a Non-Disclosure Agreement. A copy must be of a high quality and should be sent to csm-contact@ccpgames.com after the application has been submitted through a website.
Additionally, candidates can create campaign threads on the forums in this section.
Applications cannot be edited after you submit them. Please make sure that all information you submit in the form is final. Bear in mind that submitting any form of offensive content via a CSM Application form (even if it’s a link to an external website with such content) is against our rules and action may be taken against your account. 