THE BLOOD SOAKED RICHES
With Alliance Tournament XII, we introduced a prize structure that had several goals:
To provide strong and unique rewards that match the epic levels of passion, training and mastery displayed by our competitors
To ensure that teams feel they have a good chance of being rewarded if they put in the effort to field a competitive team
To reward the entire alliances behind each team, since in the Alliance Tournament there are often hundreds of players providing support for each team member that you see flying in the matches
As this structure found great success in AT XII and XIII, we’ll be using it again this year. As for the actual prizes, here’s what you’ll be fighting to claim this year:
The Alliance Tournament Cup
The Alliance Tournament Cup is an ingame inventory item of which only one copy may ever exist. Every year we edit the description of the item to reflect the complete list of former tournament winners and move the item to the possession of the most recent winners.
The Alliance Tournament Cup was given to the Pandemic Legion alliance in the most recent Alliance Tournament XIII, and after the conclusion of Alliance Tournament XIV it will be taken from wherever it resides at that time and given to the AT XIV champions.
Alliance Tournament Medals
In previous tournaments, we have given ingame Alliance Tournament Medal inventory items for the teams that places first, second and third in the tournament. The number of medals granted was the same number as the maximum pilots that could be fielded in that tournament. We will be continuing to do this for Alliance Tournament XIV.
However, like Alliance Tournament XII and XIII, we will also be giving out medals to every character that was a member of the participating alliances on the first day of the tournament. These will appear on the character sheet, exactly like a medal awarded by a corporation. There will be medals for Tournament Competitor, Top 32, Top 16, Top 8, 4th, 3rd, 2nd, and 1st. Each character will receive only the highest medal that their alliance earned.
Remember, the medals will only be granted to characters in a participating alliance on the first day of the tournament (October 1st).