THE STRATEGIC CRUISER FOCUS GROUP
Following the example of the successful Tactical Destroyer focus group, we are running a new Strategic Cruiser Focus Group to help refine and improve the designs for this T3 Cruiser rework.
The goal of the group will be to provide CCP feedback from a smaller group than the general EVE community for faster discussion with improved clarity.
The logs of the channel will be automatically published to the public on this website for transparency. Everyone can see what is being discussed, but only focus group members and CCP devs can actually talk in the channel
We opened up applications for the focus group last week in this forum thread, and we want to thank everyone who put their name forward for the group. Unfortunately we can’t accept everyone or else we would have a group too large to be functional.
The players we have selected for the initial round of this focus group are:
Asher Elias
Capri Sun KraftFoods
Eustise
ExookiZ
frsd
Icarus Narcissus
lanyaie
Lemkor Gengod
Mawderator
Noxisia Arkana
progodlegend
Rowells
StarFleetCommander
Sturm Gewehr
Titus Tallang
White 0rchid
All of these characters will be receiving evemails from CCP Fozzie with information about how they can connect to the CCP focus groups slack team. We will begin the good work of the focus group as soon as we can start getting members online.
Thanks for joining us today for this dev blog today and special thanks to those who volunteered for the focus group!
In case you missed it above I just want to go ahead and repeat the key transition information that we’ll be repeating many times in the coming months:
We highly encourage all players who will be flying T3 Cruisers at the time of downtime on July 11th get themselves into a safe location such as a friendly starbase or docked within a station/structure before the downtime begins. This will ensure that they do not get caught in a dangerous situation with some of their modules offline when they next log in.
Thanks again and fly safe!
-Team Five 0