DESIGN SPACE
There was a recurring problem both with this design and the Bantam redesign over the blurry lines between Minmatar and Caldari design spaces. Both use large, flat shapes and live dangerously close together, so this was an opportunity to think about what our goals are for Minmatar and how to contrast that with all our new Caldari redesigns.
During the Rupture redesign process, we added lots of exposed scaffolding. The gun ports being exposed added the concept of using lots of negative space as a design element. I began looking at spaced armor on tanks and vehicles, and from there my reference folder was full of older World War 2 photos of vehicles. This accidentally became the defining decision process on making sure we didn’t step on Caldari design shoes, as all their ships are based on sleeker, cutting edge modern day and future military tech. Everything is enclosed into a sleek and uniform shell, with very few exposed electronics.
With Minmatar, we’ve gone the opposite way--everything should be on display. The Rupture hull would be broken up into chunky plating, with rugged functionality exposed to the space outside the hull and dark gaps in the armor exposing structural beams. The ships would be bulkier, but, unlike Gallente, most of that bulk would be composed of empty spaces rather than voluminous hull and structure. Despite being a big ship in terms of dimensions, it could still conceivably be light and fast compared to its Caldari counterparts due to the stripped down, hollow look we were going for. The oversized engines helped sell this even more.
The Rupture’s original transom rear gave us room to add large galleries of windows of generous size, compared to Caldari’s utilitarian and sparse windows. The orange glow and dark spaces gave a nice feeling that the interior of the ship was warm, playing into a recent theme of Minmatar tribal fire pits we’ve been playing with for FX. We tried to add a homey kind of glowing feel to the windows on the ship to help convey that Minmatar ships are generally more crowded with crew than other races. We also added a dedicated bay just under this area for launching drones and other small craft that a cruiser may need.
After this back and forth, we ended up with a model that was pretty final