THERE’S ORE IN THEM THAR MOONS 
Hello again industrious capsuleers. It’s time for another Refinery and moon mining dev blog from your friendly neighborhood Team Five 0.
Today’s blog will discuss the way moon composition, moon material distribution and moon surveying will be changing this year as part of the Upwell Refinery introduction. Read on for all the juicy details, or if you’re looking for a quick TL;DR feel free to skip to the list at the end of the blog.
As we revealed in our previous dev blog, the introduction of Upwell Refineries this winter will completely revolutionize the way capsuleers harvest moons to obtain the resources used in Tech 2 production. The old paradigm of a starbase moon harvester passively collecting units of moon materials every hour is being replaced with a new moon drill service module that rips massive sections of a moon into orbit so the ore within can be harvested by pod-capable ships.
We discussed the basic outline of the new moon mining process in the eve keynote at Fanfest earlier this year as well as the previous blog, but for a quick refresher here is the entire walkthrough:
A refinery that is deployed at the correct spot beside a moon can fit and online a special moon drilling service module. Only one structure can mine each moon at a time.
The owners will then setup the fracking operation, with larger chunks taking longer time to be drilled from the moon.
The moon drilling module begins blasting a chunk of the moon away from its surface and dragging it towards the structure. This process takes between one and several weeks depending on the choices made by the structure owner. Observers can watch the chunk move through space as a way of estimating when it will reach the Refinery.
Once the chunk of moon rock has completed its journey into space, the Refinery can use its drill module to detonate the chunk into a minable asteroid field. The exact time of the detonation is controlled by the owners of the Refinery within limits. If the chunk is left unattended long enough it will disintegrate into the asteroid field on its own.
The new asteroid field that appears with the explosion of the chunk will contain new types of valuable ores that will yield moon minerals when reprocessed. The composition of the field will depend on the composition of moon materials available in the moon. The field will generally remain far enough away from the Refinery structure that you won’t be able to effectively mine it from docking range but close enough for a pilot controlling the Refinery to be able to cover the friendly miners and/or attack uninvited guests.
Once the chunk has exploded, the drilling module can begin fracturing a new part of the moon to start the process again.