NEW NPC STANDINGS UI 
NPC standings are an important part of EVE. They govern which missions you can do, your ability to join faction warfare, and when you will be attacked in NPC controlled parts of space to name a few. With this in mind, we’ve been working on a way to show you when these things either become available to you or when you will lose access to them.
Without further ado, let us introduce the new NPC Standings UI:
Starting at the top, we are introducing a bar to represent your current standings with the selected NPC Faction, Corporation or Agent ranging from -10 on the left to +10 on the right. As you move in either direction you will be able to see exactly when you will gain access to or lose access to missions, epic arcs, and faction warfare. We hope this will allow you to learn and understand the standings system and the potential impact your actions can have.
On the left is a list of all the NPC Factions, Corporations, and Agents that you have encountered. For new players, this will just include their starting faction. Selecting one of these entities will populate the rest of the standings window.
On the right, is your standings history with the currently selected entity. This is already in the client but it takes about 6 clicks and 3 different windows to access. 
We are also adding some new notifications for when your NPC standings change. When you gain or lose standings with a Faction, Corporation or Agent you will receive a notification to inform you of the change. Clicking the notification will open the standings panel and highlight the standings that have changed. These can be configured in the Notification settings.
We are also changing the standings tab in the Show Info window for Factions, Corporations, and Agents. Instead of having double entries for each entity, we will now have a single line conveying the same information.
For the Agents tab in the Corporation Show Info window, we are adding a filter for the agents so you can now filter by levels I – V. We hope this will help players to find agents they can speak to.
We are also adding a new NPC standings tab in the Standings tab of the corporation window. This will show you each corporation members standing toward NPC factions including the corporations overall standing with the faction, corporation, or agent.
We have added a conversation bubble icon next to agents that shows you whether or not you are able to receive a mission or not with the agent. As it currently stands, you start a conversation with the agent only to be told that they have nothing for you. We hope players will now quickly be able to distinguish if they are able to receive a mission or not without suffering such a rude reply!