A MESSAGE FROM FRANÇOIS BOUCHY, MAXIME MARMIER AND OLIVER TURNER – MEMBERS OF MICHEL MAYOR’S TEAM IN SWITZERLAND.
In July 2017, all 176,802 light curves obtained by the CoRoT space mission were injected into EVE Online with the aim of detecting new transiting exoplanets. At the astronomy department of the Geneva University, a first analysis of the 44.4 million classifications provided by 77,709 players in 190 days is underway. This is a staggering number of classifications; for comparison, the Zooniverse Galaxy Zoo Project received 50 million classifications during its first year. Hundreds of light curves, previously thought to have no transits, have been identified by the pilots of EVE Online as new transit candidates with a very high consensus. It is important to note that a high consensus does not mean the events are new planets. So, these new events are presently being analyzed in more detail by the astronomers of Geneva University and cross-checked with other astronomical databases.
Much like the galaxy of New Eden, the work of finding planet transits is fraught with difficulty, even for professionals. As such, a high fraction of these new candidates corresponds to artefacts in the light curves due to instrumental effect, intrinsic stellar variability or eclipsing binary stars. In spite of this, dozens of the detections checked so far present the typical shape of an exoplanet signature. This goes to show that, though only a fraction of the data supplied has been cross-checked by astronomers so far, EVE Online players are making a remarkable impact on the analysis of the CoRoT light curves. Their efforts have proved particularly valuable in finding transit-like signals buried in those caused by stellar variability and individual, non-repeating transit events. The latter are of great interest as they may turn out to be planets in very long period orbits which are currently under-represented and poorly studied.
The following is a small selection of particularly interesting objects:
A (potential) Jupiter-like planet with a variable host star:
Ex1Ex2
A (potential) long-period Jupiter-like planet:
Ex3Ex4
A (potential) Neptune-like planet (from a somewhat noisy light curve):
Ex5Ex6
Regardless of their diverse in-game roles (be they haulers, combatants, spies or the like), the pilots of EVE Online have shown themselves to be effective, real-life explorers of the galaxy.
Although we are well aware of the EVE Community’s tendency to surpass expectations, we may yet again have underestimated the capsuleers’ capacity for science. Rest assured, however, there’s plenty for Project Discovery to do, as we try to discover something new in all the stars in the sky that the CoRoT telescope has seen twinkling.