SOVEREIGNTY CAPTURE AND ENTOSIS LINK CHANGES
Discussion thread
This upcoming March release will also include a set of tweaks to the Entosis Link module and to sov capture events. The primary goals of these changes are to shake up the sov combat metagame and give players new gameplay options to optimize and master.
We presented an earlier form of these proposed changes to the CSM at the recent winter summit and incorporated their feedback into the design below.
The biggest of these changes revolve around the Entosis Link module itself. We are currently planning on the following changes to the Entosis Link:
Allow remote assistance to subcapital ships with Entosis Links running (including remote reps)
Significantly reduced max ranges: 20km for T1 and 50km for T2
Significantly reduced fitting requirements for the T2 module: 20 power grid and 5 CPU
+100% sensor strength to any ship with an active cycling Entosis Link
Combined these changes remove the largest downside of activating an Entosis Link (the remote assistance block) while also forcing the linking ships into a much closer area around their target.
Being able to remote rep the linking ship also makes it easier to run multiple redundant links which reduces the power of alpha doctrines in sov capture events.
We are also looking at some tweaks to the node spawning in sov capture events:
Increase the score gained per node capture from 5% to 7%
Reduce the number of starting nodes from 5 to 4
Increase the random node spawn chance by ~14%
These changes reduce the number of node captures required to complete an uncontested event as well as concentrating the starting locations for fights somewhat.
We are sure that a great many of you will have feedback to share on these proposed changes, and we're looking forward to discussion in the various feedback threads for each of these changes.
Thanks for taking the time to read this dev blog today and thanks in advance for your feedback in the forum threads.
These changes will be available for testing on the Singularity test server very soon and we encourage everyone to try them out there and give as much feedback as possible!
Fly safe!