38	english	 	 SOVEREIGNTY CONQUESTS	The rate of systems changing hands in Sovereignty provides a solid indicator of strategic conflict in Nullsec space. Increases in this metric tend to go along with major wars, and extended periods containing few system flips tends to indicate stagnation.	We were hoping for a significant increase in system flips per day during Phase One, with the theory that increased localism from the power projection changes would allow a number of smaller Sov conflicts as non-superpower organizations claim their own chunks of territory.	The results of Phase One on this metric have been noticeable and positive, however we would have been happier with a higher status quo over the past three months.	An initial spike is obvious as alliances made diplomatic deals to transfer space and moved around the map to prepare for the post-Phoebe Nullsec. Although this spike momentarily surpassed the peaks during the Fountain and Halloween Wars visible earlier on the graph, it is not by itself a real indicator of lasting Nullsec health. After the spike, the continued fighting (mainly focused in regions containing Angel NPCs) has generated Sov activity that is acceptable but not particularly exceptional. The new status quo appears to be about four times larger than the status quo in the months immediately preceding the Phase One Dev Blog, and approximately match the periods between wars in 2013.	If Phase Two is a success, we would ideally like to see a significantly higher status quo, less reliant on bursts of activity from major wars.	Overall score for Sovereignty Conquests: We’re successfully off life support, but we absolutely need to do better.	Thanks for joining me for this look back on the metrics surrounding Phase One of our Nullsec changes. Huge thanks to every player who has discussed their own Nullsec experience with us, and helped provide feedback for all our changes so far. I encourage all of you to check out our new Dev Blog covering the plans for Phase Two, and to provide us your feedback on those designs. We will be looking to talk with you all on the forums as well as in person at Fanfest later this month!
