38	english	 	 INTRODUCING THE ENTOSIS LINK	We’ll begin by introducing a new module that sits at the core of the new system, and that will become more and more important to many parts of EVE over the upcoming months and years.	Recently mysterious new ships have been spotted all across New Eden, sporting advanced technology unlike anything seen before. Exploring the recovered wreckage of these Drifter battleships, researchers are already starting to make startling breakthroughs in the field of mind-machine interfacing.	One of the first results of these breakthroughs is a new module that enables capsuleers to directly interface with the computer systems governing certain structures, bypassing the need for abstracted hacking interfaces.	The Entosis Link module represents the central interaction mechanic of the new Sovereignty system (among its other uses) and the interaction between competing groups of players wishing to use their Entosis Links will provide much of the gameplay and conflict.	The Entosis Link is a targeted highslot module that can be activated on certain structures. For the purpose of this Sovereignty redesign, the important targets are Territorial Claim Units, Infrastructure Hubs, Stations and Station Services.	The Entosis Link is used for all kinds of manipulation of these structures. In general, activating an Entosis Link on a structure you own will activate and protect it, while activating an Entosis Link on a structure you do not own will disable, reinforce or capture it.	Crucially, the process of exerting control over a structure using an Entosis Link cannot be sped up by using more links or more players.	If two or more Entosis Links belonging to different “sides” are operational on the same structure at the same time, neither will have any effect and all capture will be paused. This remains true even if one side has more Links operational on the structure than the other side.	For the purposes of Sovereignty structures, there are two ways that the system can determine “sides”:	If the structure has a current owner, then the alliance that owns the structure is one side and everyone else in EVE is the other side as far as the server is concerned. All Entosis links from any alliance other than the owning alliance are considered to be the same side. This means that in fights over an owned structure, allies of the owner can provide support by shooting other players but if those allies activate their own Entosis links they will not pause enemy capture progress or do anything to return the structure to its owner’s control. This ensures that a defending alliance must show up personally to at least help with the defense of their territory, no matter how strong their allies are.	If the structure has no current owner, then every alliance represents their own team and any two separate alliances running their own active Entosis links will pause capture.	The basic flow of Entosis Link gameplay is shown in the following flow chart:	This power doesn’t come without risks however.	Entosis Links have a significant cycle time (5 minutes for the Tech One variant, 2 minutes for Tech Two) and do not start affecting the battle for control of the target structure until the end of their first cycle.	Activating an Entosis Link also causes ships to become extremely vulnerable for the duration of the module’s cycle: the equipped ship cannot warp, dock, jump or receive remote assistance until the cycle completes.	Other key attributes of the Entosis Link module are:	Requires the skill Infomorph Psychology (rank 1 skill).	Low fitting requirements, uses high power slot.	Only one may be fitted per ship.	Cannot be used by trial accounts.	Maximum range of 25km for Tech One, 250km for Tech Two.	Requires a target lock on the structure.	Capital Ships would have restrictions for using these modules, most likely in the form of a role bonus that increases the cycle time by 400% (this means a 10 minute cycle time for a T2 Entosis Link on a capital ship).	A clear visual effect shows which ships are applying Entosis Links.	Build costs of approximately 20 million isk for Tech One, and approximately 80 million isk for Tech Two.	The cycle time of Entosis links does not affect the speed at which structures are captured once the first cycle is complete. This means that using a T1 Link will cause a longer initial delay before capturing begins (during the first cycle) and will leave the player vulnerable and unable to warp for longer periods of time, but will still capture the structure in the same amount of time as a T2 link once it’s up and running.	Both the cycle time of the Entosis Link module and the actual capture process will be affected by time dilation.	When a target structure does not have a current owner, every alliance represents their own “side” and all characters are capable of making progress towards capturing it at the same rate. When a target Sovereignty structure has a current owner, the system recognizes two sides (the current owning alliance on one side and everyone else on the other) and the rate at which attacking characters make capture progress is reduced according to the occupancy defensive bonuses of the solar system. More details about how these bonuses work will be explained later in the blog.	The result of all these design features is that the best method to exert control over a structure with the Entosis Link is to establish effective military control over the grid around the target structure.	In this Sovereignty update, the Entosis Link will be used for the following tasks (details later in this blog):	Activating newly deployed Territorial Claim Units and Infrastructure Hubs	Reinforcing Territorial Claim Units, Infrastructure Hubs and Outposts during their vulnerability period
