11	english	 	 It is made of:	Again, once the job is initiated, a chance-based roll will determine the outcome based on the following formula (which has been updated with Crius as well):	There are several pain points with the two systems explained above:	Gameplay wise, both have the same goal, to obtain advanced blueprints. For that purpose they employ very closely related mechanics (initiator, sink, chance-based system).	However, despite their similarity, components of the same type don’t behave on the same fashion depending on the activity they’re used into. Data Interface type is determined from the blueprint for Invention, while it sets the racial output for Reverse Engineering.	Invention has two variables affecting the output (Meta Items, Decryptors), while Reverse Engineering has none.	In essence we end up with two different industrial activities that almost have the same look and feel, while having some key differences. That gets confusing when comparing the two: features should either have different gameplay to justify their existence or should not exist separately at all.	That is precisely why we have decided to merge Invention and Reverse Engineering into a single activity.	This merged feature, which shall still be named Invention, will henceforth be defined as the industrial activity that yields advanced blueprints no matter their tech level. If using a Tech I blueprint copy, the output will be a Tech II blueprint copy. When using an Ancient Relic, a Tech III blueprint copy is to be expected.	This activity will have sinks, mainly through Datacores, and will offer ways for the player to modify its inputs and outputs through Teams and Decryptors.	To reach this goal, we will need to do the following:	Data Interface removal: Data Interfaces are going to be removed from the game. We don’t feel they provide gameplay that’s valuable enough to keep around. Data Interfaces will be properly reimbursed when that happens.	Meta Item removal: Meta Item consumption to affect success chance is messy. It only affects modules, not ships and has a formula that is full of exceptions. Those will not be reimbursed as they can be used independently from Invention.	Introduction of Teams to replace Meta Items: we are going to extend the role of Teams to Invention, just like it works right now for other industry activities.	Decryptors will affect Tech III blueprints. We will most likely tweak decryptor attributes in the process to balance their gameplay value.	Invention formula changes: the formula will be changed to the following.	Where the required Racial Encryption Methods skill is going to vary depending on the outcome:	Tech II Blueprint copy: Amarr, Caldari, Gallente or Minmatar Encryption Methods.	Tech III Blueprint copy: Sleeper Encryption Methods, which is the old Reverse Engineering skill that we are going to rename.	For comparison purposes, below are the old Invention + Reverse Engineering success chances (left) versus new (right):	That means a 20% chance drop when inventing Tech II Blueprint copies if you were using a Meta 4 item, and approximately 40% chance drop when inventing Tech III blueprint copies with maximum skills. While that is quite a lot in practice, this is not set in stone yet and we have a lot of changes coming in to mitigate that.	We are compensating the success chance decrease by:	Having Decryptors now affect Tech III blueprints as well, allowing you to impact their ME and TE levels.	Having Teams affect Invention ME and TE inputs, which can shave Datacore costs down.	And more importantly, by the changes that are explained below, so we encourage you to keep reading.
