14	english	 	 MODULE TIERICIDE	With Module Tiericide, we are taking our aim at another set of tiers that can stifle choice: meta levels.	The meta level attribute is partially used to differentiate classes of modules behind the scenes, but it’s most visible place for players is with the so-called “meta” modules (also known as named modules). Named modules drop from NPCs all over EVE, and were originally intended to represent a tiered set of special upgraded versions of the base T1 module. Since their names are not very helpful in determining their power level, most players have come to rely on their meta level attribute to figure out which is best at a glance. This is why the phrase “meta 4 module” has become so common in EVE.	The problem with this system is that cost/rarity tiers only work as gameplay tools if the differences in rarity and/or power are very significant. Named modules have suffered from the same problem that the old Tech One ship tiers faced before Tiericide; there’s virtually no reason to use anything other than the top level.	Our solution to this problem is to replace the meta-based named module system with a new role-based system. Each named module in a class will have roughly equivalent power level, and that power level will be above T1. Each named module will also have a specialization that gives a player interested in shopping for named modules a viable and interesting choice. As part of this system, we may consolidate a number of named modules together since we may not need four variations to represent all the areas of interesting player choice. To make it clear that meta levels will no longer represent power differences within the named modules, we will be changing all the named modules to have a meta level of 1.	This image gives a basic overview of how the meta level attribute is used now and how it will be used after Module Tiericide is complete:	You’ll notice that we are keeping the meta level progression for deadspace and officer modules. At these rarity levels the progression system is a bit more successful and can provide some valuable choices. We will be making changes to the balance surrounding deadspace and officer modules but we have no plans to unify their power levels at this time.	There is a set of images that I showed at this year’s Fanfest that still apply very well to our Module Tiericide plans, so I’d like to repeat them here. They use the hypothetical example of a beam laser module, as that example provides a lot of options for named module specializations.	This images shows the current state of meta level progression in EVE. The power level increases along the x axis, with damage modifier being the key “power” metric for lasers:	You can see that the modules mainly fit into a linear path of advancing power, which does not represent a very interesting set of choices for the player.	After the Module Tiericide of beam lasers has completed, the chart would look more like this:	Under the new system, named modules will fall into anywhere from one to four areas of specialization, so that players can choose what attributes matter the most to them.	Each specialization will also have a unique name that is consistent across all named modules, so that if you see a module with the word “Compact” at the front of it you can know that it has reduced fitting costs no matter what type of module it is.	The “named module” names that will be used in our Oceanus changes are:	Upgraded- Used for named modules where no specialization is possible	Compact- Used for named modules that specialize in reduced fitting cost	Enduring- Used for named modules that specialize in lower cap use or otherwise longer running time	Ample- Used for named modules that specialize in extra capacity	Scoped- Used for named modules that specialize in longer range	Restrained- Used for named modules that specialize in reduced drawbacks	It’s important to note that none of the named modules specialize in stronger “primary” stats, as those modules would become the obvious best choice for most situations. So every one of the named modules after Tiericide will have the same primary stats. For instance all of the named Light Missile Launchers have the same rate of fire, all of the named Capacitor Flux Coils provide the same cap/s increase, and in the future all of the named Heavy Beam Lasers will have the same damage multiplier.	We expect that we will be adding more categories as we go forward with more module groups (for instance once we move into turrets you can expect that we’ll be adding a tracking specialization).	At the same time we will be consolidating the so-called “Basic” tier of modules. These modules generally have lower skill and fitting requirements than T1, and provide a very small bonus in exchange. “Basic” modules stopped entering the game quite some time ago, but the remaining copies of the modules are sometimes used for niche fits. We will be consolidating these modules down to one type, which will generally be equal or better to the best “basic” module in the class pre-Tiericide. This new module type will be clearly labelled as “Basic” and will have the COSMOS tag to indicate that it’s a special snowflake.
