52	english	 	 LOOKING BACK AT MOSAIC	At Fanfest this year we announced the last round of Nullsec PVE and infrastructure updates, which were then deployed in our Mosaic release on April 28th.	These changes focused on the construction and deployment of infrastructure upgrades, as well as mining yields and values in Nullsec space.	We reduced the volumes of Infrastructure Hubs and their upgrades significantly to allow them to be deployed more easily, as well as enabling deployment of structures from fleet hangars. We also replaced NPC sell orders for Infrastructure Upgrades with blueprints that allowed capsuleer industrialists to produce the upgrades themselves, including producing them in their own Nullsec space for easier logistics.	We made three connected changes for Nullsec, Wormhole and Lowsec mining, doubling consumption of Zydrine and Megacyte, rebalancing the mineral content of the Nullsec and Lowsec ores, and completely revamping the content of the mining anomalies generated by the Ore Prospecting Array system upgrade.	We also made some tweaks to the rate of index accumulation for the Military and Industrial Sovereignty Indexes, in preparation for the Activity Defense Multipliers kicking in this July.	All the details of these Mosaic changes can be found in this previous dev blog.	We’re still keeping a close eye on mining rates and ore values in Nullsec, and the results so far are very promising. In the 10 weeks since Mosaic, approximately 20% more ore by volume has been mined in Nullsec than in the 10 weeks before Mosaic. In the same timeframe Lowsec mining has also risen by approximately 11%. So far prices for Nullsec ores are remaining robust and the Nullsec share of all mining done in EVE is approaching record levels.	At this stage it appears that these Mosaic updates have done a good job of improving the value of Nullsec mining gameplay and easing infrastructure logistics bottlenecks without causing serious problems in other areas of space. This is a balance that we are hoping to hit with our July changes as well.
