THE EVE ONLINE API CHALLENGE
For a long time, EVE Online has offered the ability for third-party developers to pull information from our database servers for use in other applications and websites. Over the years, this ability has spawned the growth of a substantial and active third-party developer community within the greater EVE Online community. As developers, we are constantly amazed by the things you create. We’ve seen everything: from incredibly comprehensive industry and mapping tools; mind boggling espionage and counter-espionage tools; to expansive killboards and so much more.

Over the years our offerings to third-party developers have gotten more substantial and our commitment to providing those services has increased as well. This year alone has seen incredible strides forward in what CREST offers with the addition of saved fits, contacts, and much more.

WHAT DOES CREST OFFER
Here is a brief rundown of some of the things that CREST currently offers:

Read and write of character contacts
Read and write of saved fittings
Read a characters current location
Dogma information (all dogma attributes and dogma effects)
The ability to set the clients autopilot waypoint
Alliance information
Inventory information (categories, groups, and types including a types dogma information)
Universe information including regions, constellations, and solar systems
Tournaments
Market information
Sovereignty information
Wars
Incursions
Industry
Killmails
Continuing our efforts to support third-party developers, we are incredibly happy to announce The EVE Online API challenge: Create a piece of software that primarily focuses on use of the CREST API.

The goal of this challenge is to have some fun and strengthen the third-party developer community. We highly encourage those of you participating to think outside the box and do something new or different. Once all the entries are submitted and CCP has reviewed and judged them, we will share the results in another dev blog and possibly discuss them at Fanfest 2016. In addition and to help add to the fun of participating we will be giving away some prizes. But before we get to that, here are the rules you should be aware of.

SUBMITTING AN ENTRY
To submit an entry to the contest, follow this link and fill out the form. Please be aware that the character name(s) you enter will be used to contact winners, so please be sure they are accurate.

JUDGING
As part of the submission, all entries must provide a public Git repository link that should provide sufficient documentation, including a demo if at all possible. We'll be using the following criteria to determine the winners of the challenge:

Technical difficulty
Creativity/Originality
Clarity/Presentation
General polish
AND YOUR REWARDS ARE...
Prizes will be awarded for 1st, 2nd and 3rd place entries. There will also be an additional prize awarded at the sole discretion of CCP Seagull.  (CCP Seagull was an early champion of CREST and helped lead the team that delivered it. Due to CCP Seagull's history with CREST, she has been given the honor of selecting one additional entry to win a prize completely at her own discretion.)

Prizes include two of the amazing TQ server blades that our operations team had put together. You can read a bit more about them here: //community.eveonline.com/news/dev-blogs/fanfest-2015-silent-auction-servers-t-shirts-guns..-oh-my/



Alongside the server blades, we have a collection of SKINs, PLEX, Aurum, and signed books to give away. Each team member from the winning entry (maximum of two (2) team members per entry) will receive:

1st place:

Classic Tranquility server blade
Mordus Legion Parade SKIN Pack (Barghest, Orthrus, Garmur)
5,000 Aurum
5x PLEX
2nd place:

Winners choice of Super Capital SKIN
3,000 Aurum
1x PLEX
Signed copy of EVE Universe: The Art of New Eden
3rd place:

Sisters of EVE Santuary SKIN Pack (Nestor, Stratios, Astero)
3,000 Aurum
Signed copy of EVE Universe: The Art of New Eden
CCP Seagull's choice:

3,000 Aurum
Signed copy of EVE Universe: The Art of New Eden
GENERAL RULES
The work submitted to this contest must be in English.
The contest starts on February 15th, 2016 (the moment this dev blog is published).
The deadline for all entries is March 4th, 2016 at 23:59 GMT.
Winners will be announced by March 29th 23:59 GMT.
You can work alone or with a partner, but teams cannot be larger than two (2) individuals.
The work submitted to this contest must be originally made for this contest. No pre-existing work is allowed and will be disqualified.
Work must be submitted with a link to a public Git repository.
Each team member must have a valid EVE Online account and character.
CCP is the sole judge of the contest and its judgment will be final.
Winners will be contacted via the email address associated with their character's EVE Online account.
While the focus of the challenge is on the use of the CREST API, use of other data sources (the XML API, SDE, or third-party) in support of the application is allowed.
Current partners, contractors, and employees of CCP Games are not eligible for participation in this contest.
You must be 18 years old or older to win.
Each person may only enter the contest one (1) time, whether as an individual or as a member of a team.
No purchase is necessary to enter or win.
CCP is not responsible for lost, late, misidentified or misdirected entries, or computer performance, errors, delays or failures.
If, for any reason, the fairness or integrity of the contest is questioned, or CCP's administration or fulfillment of the contest becomes impracticable, CCP reserves the right to terminate or modify the contest, and to disqualify any individual who tampers with the registration process or the administration of the contest.
Any and all disputes arising out of or in connection with this contest will be handled on an individual basis and in accordance with the laws of Iceland.
Contest void where prohibited or restricted by law, and all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations apply.
By entering a submission, you grant CCP the right to use your name for advertising and marketing purposes, without additional compensation, unless otherwise prohibited by law.
Prizes are subject to change and will be awarded at CCP’s sole discretion.
Prizes may be taxable depending on your local laws.  All taxes are your responsibility.
All entries must be submitted under the MIT License and should include the following:

Copyright © 2016 Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

We are very excited to see what you all create for this. While working be sure to check out this auto-generated CREST documentation (//jimpurbrick.com/crestmatic/) or the community written documentation over here (//eveonline-third-party-documentation.readthedocs.org/en/latest/).

CCP FoxFour

(Cross-posted on the official Developers site)

FAQ
Q) Can I continue working on the application after submitting it to be judged?

A) Yes of course! However, since we will be judging the repo you submit through the Google Doc form, you should not push any changes to it after the deadline or you could disqualify yourself. Feel free to have the link you send us be a fork from your main repo where you continue working though.

Q) Can I participate if I don't have an active subscription?

A) Yes you can! If you wish to integrate the SSO or any part of authenticated CREST you will need to register an application on developers.eveonline.com which does have the requirement that you have paid for something from us in the past.

New to EVE? Start your 14-day free trial today.
Returning pilot? Visit Account Management for the latest offers and promotions.