Chat Resources
First off, you will have three open chat channels when you first create your character. Whenever one of the channels is highlighted, it means you have unread messages there.
The local tab is your local channel. It contains all other players that are in your current system, so don't be afraid to talk there when taking your first steps and requesting assistance as required. You will start out in a system with a lot of other new players, so feel free to get to know eachother, strike up friendships, and help eachother out!
The corp tab is your Rookie Corporation Chat. Rest assured that this channel is filled with new players just like yourself, so chat away! You may also find some experienced players in there who'll be answering questions and assisting new players.
The last tab is the Rookie Help channel. That is absolutely the place to seek assistance and ask questions! There are a lot of seasoned players in this channel who will assist and guide you, along with members of our wonderful ISD STAR Volunteer Team who are here to help. They will be highlighted in chat with a different color of text to regular players, and the prefix "ISD" before their character name.
If you ever lose one of these channels, don't worry. You can click the little chat bubble and find them there, most notably the help channels under the Help category. Otherwise they will be at the top of your menu, on the left side of your screen.
Above: The location of the channels list in your NeoCOM.
Above: The default set of chat channels stacked into one window with tabs.
Please be aware that in the world of New Eden, there are very few rules on player interaction, and there may be some people out there who are looking to take advantage of others. Always be careful of who you trust. For a little more details on Scamming in EVE Online, see this awesome guide by EVE University!
CONCORD are there for your protection, but are a reactive rather than a proactive force.
They respond to incidents within high security space (0.5 - 1.0 security), taking punitive action against players who attack others.