Next Steps
Although these new features will smooth out the way we work together to raise the quality bar of EVE ever higher, we are by no means ”done“ on bug reporting.  On the process side, we have been making a few tweaks here and there and recruiting for our Bug Hunter division.  All of this combined has allowed us to hit a new record high of 91% of filed bug reports processed in a release window.  It‘s going to be a challenge, but we are confident of beating that record again before the year is through. 
There is also the matter of the in-client bug reporting tool (accessed via the Help menu).  This is our preferred method of receiving reports, as it automatically attaches things like logs, dxdiags, etc.  It also allows you to take screenshots, annotate them, and upload them along with your report.  Anything that you submit via this tool will appear on the My Bug Reports page on the website, and will be as interactive as any report submitted via the web.  There is currently no way to access the My Bug Reports section via the tool, but we will see if we can get a solution for this in the future.
We will also be working on an email notification system to allow us to let you know directly when we have updated your report or changed its status.  This will further reduce the number of bug reports we are forced to discard for containing insufficient info, as well as keep you informed in real time when we are working on one of your reports. 
There‘s also an idea that the QA department have been toying around with – that of making a section of our defect tracker „public“, and allowing you to vote on legacy issues to let us know where you would most value our efforts be focused when we work on technical debt.  This is an idea very much in a raw state, and any thoughts or feedback that you have towards this (even if it‘s just saying „I‘d use it!“) are hugely appreciated. 
Finally, one more reminder that our Bug Hunter division of volunteers are recruiting again, and we want you! If you‘re interested in getting involved, please apply here (you need to be logged in to the Community website to access this link).
Extras