New mechanic added: Jump Fatigue
This constrains jump-aided movement over time, encouraging such movement methods to be used rarely and locally. Fatigue and related mechanics never arise from or apply to stargate travel.
Jump fatigue is expressed as a time value, indicating the duration over which it will take to decay to 0. This value counts down in real time.
Jump fatigue has a minimum amount of 10 x (1 + (LY traveled)) minutes after a jump. Jump fatigue has a maximum amount of 30 days.
Jump fatigue is otherwise multiplied by 1 + (LY traveled) after each jump.
This allows us to discourage people travelling longer distances using jump travel, while keeping penalties relatively light for tactical/occasional movement.
After each jump, pilots gain a jump cooldown timer which prevents them using a jump drive/jump bridge/jump portal again until this cooldown has expired.
The length of the timer is dependent on the amount of fatigue present on the pilot when the jump is executed.
The length of your timer, should you jump right now, is displayed in the fatigue tooltip.
There is a minimum length a timer can be, equal to 1 + (LY traveled) in minutes.
The cooldown timer is the thing that actually constrains movement.
Certain ships have bonuses to “effective distance traveled for the purposes of jump fatigue”. This multiplies with the (LY traveled) element of the above expressions.
Note that it does not affect the “1 +”; this prevents fatigue from being reduced by very short jumps.
Ships in the following groups gain a 90% reduction to effective distance traveled: industrial, blockade runner, deep space transport, freighter, industrial command ship, capital industrial ship, jump freighter.
This eases the impact of these changes on alliance logistics for the time being. We would like to remove these bonuses in future, but we don’t feel nullsec industry is in a sufficiently strong place that it would be prudent to do so right now.
Black Ops ships gain a 50% reduction to effective distance traveled.
Ships using a Covert Jump Portal similarly gain a 50% reduction to effective distance traveled for that jump; this multiplies with other similar bonuses.
This eases the impact on Black Ops operations, which are not a primary target for these changes. Note that a) we are expecting to need to tune these numbers in the short term as we see how they play out after Phoebe’s release, and b) these ships are in need of larger balance attention, at which time these numbers might change further.