Minus time to make the T1 copy
Thus, 2*(T1 copy + invent)=T2 build.
We've then played with the numbers a bit further, multiplying invention time for rank 3 or less blueprints by 0.9, and by 1.1 for blueprints above rank 7. This means "larger" items are more invention-bound while "smaller" items are more build-bound. Obviously, various bonuses available will mess with this balance; dealing with those is deliberately left as an exercise for the player :)
Max runs have been adjusted to be more consistent, based around build times:
Most T1 items are set to ~2 days' production time
Components are set to ~7 days' production time
T2 ships and rigs are set to 1 run
All other T2 is set to 10 runs
We then round, to the nearest 100 if the build time is above 1400, and to the nearest 10 otherwise.
Finally, build costs have (as noted earlier) been multiplied by 1/0.9 for T1, and 1.5 for T2, to balance out the removal of wastage.
THINGS WE AREN'T DOING
After considerable discussion, both internally and on the forums, we have decided that we are not going to award any additional compensation for blueprints currently researched past ME/PE 10. There are a lot of things feeding into this decision, including the strong precedent it sets, the fact that no functional value is lost, and the work involved in a one-time compensation deal that could be spent on polishing up the features we're shipping. We understand that some people will be unhappy about this, and we empathize with that, but we have to weigh everyone's interests equally and we believe in this case that the best thing for the game as a whole is to convert blueprints to the new system as previously described but not make any additional changes in this area.
We had intended to implement a bonus for having multiple similar facilities of the same type at a given starbase. This was in fact implemented in a draft state, but there was no easy way to make it both user-friendly and well-performing (it was only updating once an hour), and given the relatively limited upsides it provided, we elected to cut it and focus the time that would've been spent bringing it up to an acceptable standard on polishing the rest of the release instead.
The original design had a batch discount, whereby longer jobs had their job costs reduced. After further consideration we have also decided to cut this on the grounds that it offered fairly marginal benefit in the best case, had some counterintuitive implications (researching TE would reduce your batch discount), was challenging to explain clearly, and was at the end of the day adding complexity that we decided we didn't want or need.
We had discussed, in previous blog feedback threads, making adjustments to Gallente outpost copy speed bonuses. After slowly walking through the scenario, this turns out not to actually cause a problem. The concern revolves around the total throughput of T2 BPOs, and the impact of an increase in BPO throughput on the invention market given that total cost from a BPO undercuts total cost from invention. Currently they can get a 0.4x build speed bonus in Amarr outposts, so switching this out for a 0.4x copy speed bonus doesn’t impact potential throughput at all given that a blueprint can only be doing one thing at a time. Even if you copy in a Gallente outpost and then build in an Amarr one, you’re still bottlenecked by the copy speed. In practice, being able to take advantage of the speed bonus without having to manufacture in nullsec may increase the usage of this bonus, but balanced against that in practical terms is the need for a T2 BPO sitting in a Gallente outpost upgraded for copy speed, which is believed to be a somewhat rare occurrence.
ENDY BIT
This should comprise everything that is changing in these two areas (blueprints and pricing) in the Crius release scheduled for July 22nd. We will of course be monitoring and responding to this blog’s feedback thread, the issues and feedback threads for the release and the way use of industry features evolves on Tranquility in the months after release.
If you have questions, comments etc please raise them in the feedback thread!
That’s all for now,
-Greyscale, on behalf of Team Super Friends and Team Game of Drones
APPENDIX 1: COMMON RANKS
Rank	Types
1	All T1 small ammo, T1 small drones T1 mining crystals