“0UCH does not encourage students learn from guides, wikis, recordings, or video lectures,” Bren states. “We believe that the interaction between students and their instructors makes for a better learning experience.” This interaction, they believe, helps make students comfortable enough to ask questions, while instructors become flexible enough to coach each pilot at their level of comprehension.0UCH does not encourage students learn from guides, wikis, recordings, or video lectures,” Bren states. “We believe that the interaction between students and their instructors makes for a better learning experience.” This interaction, they believe, helps make students comfortable enough to ask questions, while instructors become flexible enough to coach each pilot at their level of comprehension.
Unlike some other training corporations, 0UCH does not act as a feeder corp for any alliance or corporation, so students share comms with their instructors at all times. “We do this to encourage communication and camaraderie between instructors and students,” Bren says.Unlike some other training corporations, 0UCH does not act as a feeder corp for any alliance or corporation, so students share comms with their instructors at all times. “We do this to encourage communication and camaraderie between instructors and students,” Bren says.
Their curriculum was developed by a veteran of both EVE University and Agony Unleashed, CampoV. It covers overview and client settings, bookmarking, directional scanning, weaponry, tackling, fleet operations, and target selection. When they decided to focus on giving new players the tools and confidence to get into null sec, he developed a program that is essentially Scouting 101.Their curriculum was developed by a veteran of both EVE University and Agony Unleashed, CampoV. It covers overview and client settings, bookmarking, directional scanning, weaponry, tackling, fleet operations, and target selection. When they decided to focus on giving new players the tools and confidence to get into null sec, he developed a program that is essentially Scouting 101.
The idea is that when students graduate from the program, they should have all of the tools that allow them to act as a scout for a fleet. Graduates are able to jump into systems, assess threats and communicate them to the fleet, all without losing their ship. 0UCH considers this the basic principle of null-sec survival.The idea is that when students graduate from the program, they should have all of the tools that allow them to act as a scout for a fleet. Graduates are able to jump into systems, assess threats and communicate them to the fleet, all without losing their ship. 0UCH considers this the basic principle of null-sec survival.
These lectures are delivered by 0UCH staff, which numbers 30 to 40 active pilots at any one time. Called the Operations Department, they are required to teach classes and mentor students through the training program, all as volunteers. No compensation is offered, and the only ship replacement is done for students and new instructors. The act of training the new players is thus a labor of love for many of them.These lectures are delivered by 0UCH staff, which numbers 30 to 40 active pilots at any one time. Called the Operations Department, they are required to teach classes and mentor students through the training program, all as volunteers. No compensation is offered, and the only ship replacement is done for students and new instructors. The act of training the new players is thus a labor of love for many of them.
“Teaching new players, as the saying goes, can be like herding cats,” Bren jokes. “0UCH mitigates that with a very structured training cycle.” Once the basics are complete, they break in new players to fleet work in a bubble camp they call Camp Curse.Teaching new players, as the saying goes, can be like herding cats,” Bren jokes. “0UCH mitigates that with a very structured training cycle.” Once the basics are complete, they break in new players to fleet work in a bubble camp they call Camp Curse.
While learning that null-sec is not scary, 0UCH also teaches that high-sec is not safe. The survival techniques learned in 0UCH work in all sectors of space. “0UCH builds confidence in pilots so they can deal with those threats intellectually and tries to minimize the sense of helplessness and frustration at being the victim.”
Class Schedule
Because 0UCH has a very formal program, they have a schedule which rotates through classes. They tend to hold four classes on the weekends in EU prime time, one weekday class in late US, and bi-weekly classes in the AU timezone. 0UCH instructors sign up to fill the schedule as their schedules permit. Once that is done, the class is scheduled on the in-game calendar so students can plan their schedules.