STRUCTURE FITTING
Instead of forcing players to anchor multiple individual structures to provide basic functions, we are taking a different approach by making structures fittable, just like ships, with all the repercussions this implies. This means we can get rid of the Control Towers and greatly reduce anchoring complexity. Please note such modules will be in a different category from the ones used on ships to avoid design issues that would overcomplicate balancing as a whole.
High slots: Those structure slots will be dedicated to weapons (turrets, launchers, AoE defense mechanics), remote assistance modules (remote hull, armor and shield boosters) and various warfare linked to disruption (energy neutralizers and nosferatus, for instance).
Mid slots: Can be fitted with electronic warfare, electronic upgrades and sensor upgrade modules.
Low slots: May be used for engineering, weapon upgrades or expanded cargoholds.
Service slots: The new additions to the slot family which will only be available for structures. Some will provide station like functionalities, while most will open totally new gameplay. Examples on those are given below under the various structure roles. One point we are considering is to remove fuel requirements to online structures and move it as a requirement to operate service modules. So for instance, onlining the equivalent of a Manufacturing Array will no longer require fuel until you insert a Ship Manufacturing module into one of its service slots and start using it to produce ships.
Rigs: Will work similarly to ship rigs – they cannot be removed without being destroyed once inserted and will provide various benefits. The main difference remains in the magnitude of the given bonuses, which will be quite dramatic here. They will take over the old Outpost upgrade system as a whole, and may be several ten times (or more) more expensive than the structure hull itself. By extension, we want the new structure equivalent of Outposts to be available for high-security space, but providing less bonuses due to the reduced risk this implies. Rigs will be the means to deliver on that vision, either by having different rigs which can only be used in separate security status areas, or by having rigs bonuses change depending on its parent hull location.
2.     SIZE
We are striving towards making our largest new structures as imposing and as visually rewarding as possible to reflect on the massive effort required to deploy them. Below you can see an approximation between our current structures and the new size system, which will again be very logical with what we used for ships (structure hulls may be small, medium, large or extra-large).