What are the anticipated consequences?
In the short term, we would anticipate a reduction in the degree to which the average non-trivial capital fight escalates, and the number of parties involved. This seems likely to increase the frequency of capitals being deployed in small-scale engagements, in both lowsec and nullsec.
Over the medium term, we see the potential for more substantial changes in the nullsec status quo as the various competing parties work to adjust their internal objectives to the new situation; it seems plausible that the general reduction in travel capabilities will lead to more localism, but we don't want to make any firm predictions in this area. We're confident that these changes improve the overall system of lowsec and nullsec gameplay and take them in better directions, but any set of changes that would allow us to accurately predict their consequences would by their nature be too simple to be interesting for very long.
Today we are unveiling the plans for Phase Two, but as we look to the future of Nullsec it is also important to look back. This blog will show some of the metrics surrounding the Phase One changes and the current state of Nullsec space as we prepare to launch into Phase Two.
Our development team takes multiple approaches to evaluate the effects of any changes to EVE Online.
First, we actively play the game and evaluate how our own experiences change as the design changes. Yes, there are several members of our team playing actively in Sovereignty space. No, I won’t tell you what their character names are. :)
We also have access to many sources of direct player feedback. We read the forums, listen to your stories and requests at player gatherings, chat with members of the Council of Stellar Management (who you should go vote for if you haven’t already) and more.
Finally, we have access to metrics that display the bigger picture of trends in player activity. Using metrics and statistics to reach conclusions must always be done with care (correlation does NOT equal causation), but in a game as huge and diverse as EVE they can be a crucial tool. This last category is one that you as players often lack access to, as when sharing data we must always be wary of the danger that some players might use our information to gain an unfair advantage over others. This blog will focus largely on giving you a glimpse into some of the metrics that we watch to help us judge the effects of Phase One of our Nullsec efforts.
We will split the metrics shown in this blog into four categories, each representing one aspect of our goals for Phoebe and Phase One. These categories are: