My name is corebloodbrothers and for those of you who don’t keep track of EVE politics, I was elected as a member of the ninth Council of Stellar Management (CSM), in order to represent you, the players of EVE Online. I am also one of the leaders of The Volition Cult Alliance, a Providence sovereignty holder and member of the Providence Bloc, which I function as one of their main Fleet Commanders. Little did I know of what was ahead…
I am 42 years of age, Dutch (horrible English spelling), father of 4 daughters, and I freaking love EVE. This is not my first CSM elections, as I ran last year as well, but sadly fell short of the mark. I didn’t get a seat, so I decided to try a different approach this time. Thus, I focused on just my own list, my friends, Providence and other entities I have come to know over the years, such as RNK for example, who voted for me. I stayed away from all the backroom dealing that went on with the previous CSM elections. So I had no crossvoting on my list, nor did I appear on other lists. And we didn’t need those either, I got voted in bigtime.
My own explanation for getting elected is simple: Being honest and loyal to the people I fly with against. Independent voters do exist, in fact, and I have had a lot of chats and EVE mails with various people since I ran for CSM, many of which I have never met before. Also running fleets daily with friends on fixed hours and shared coms helped, while giving respect to the new players and the casual PvPers, for 3 years now in the Providence Bloc. Being a part of building the current Providence, a region which sees medium sized skirmishes on a daily basis, with thousands of allies having fun living together, ranting and complaining and establishing their homes here helps to get votes. Upholding NRDS, and turning The Volition Cult from a four hundred pilot alliance into its current huge one thousand and seven hundred pilot affair is no lesser help!
Have no mistake, here in Providence, we see ourselves as the last bastion of the “Not Red Don’t Shoot” (NRDS) policy in Null Security space, as well as a truly neutral zone in a universe divided by big power blocks (Which we can’t match, but that is a discussion for a different time). So for me, and my voters, this election is merely the cherry on top. Thank you all for the trust invested, and I am truly honored to be elected. As the year progressed, so did we, under attack by HERO we dominated the news even, which was scary for the state of null actually. And we saw CCP change, and EVE with it. I like too think that if the whole null sec was divided into 20 provi like groups, with 10 border wars, Null sec would be revived J
So, just elected, and I didn’t even have time to let it sink in as the work just piles up: Twitter account, Google DocsDrive, Skype, hundreds (Literally!) of Emails, not to mention the Non Disclosure Agreement (NDA)…It is a bit overwhelming, even if I am on cloud nine, as my wife even kind of congratulated me (Since this will have an impact on my real life obviously) and my kids think I am the greatest, even telling everyone at school!. A CSM team where most are red to me ingame is funny to begin with. Some more experienced and new members reached out, others did their own thing. I was hoping for a csm team, though its often occasional clusters.
Communication is key, obviously, so I set up a twitter account: @corebloodbro. Which I use frequently , I am active on forums and other means of communication. Within my region through open sessions on mumble, Eve email explodes sometimes, internal CSM forums, all highly addictive for a eve junky with a RL and a job hehe.
In my evesterdam speech I announced a lot of things that kept me busy in the CSM, and events like blink, freighter changes, null sec, leaving of several CSM members, that impacted our term and your future. I quickly came too the realization that the meetings with CCP where often during my work. At the start I sneaked hem in at work, but that didn’t feel right. Often there where recordings available. And CCP Leeloo always announced when they where crucial and asked for us all. Sometimes that makes you feel a bit guilty, but in the end I balance that with forums, and other stuff, like a speech, interviews, twitter, and of course my vast experience in null sec as provi member (wink).
I was very happy with PI acces too null for everyone, which is a big thing in a open region. The nerf on power projection and the upcoming occupancy get from me a standing ovation. We felt with isboxer we where talking too a wall, but CCP came around big time. I hate isboxer bomberwings. With Blink we saw a CCP struggling , investing time and make clear who is in control of EVE. The whole 3 days they stayed very much in touch with us, the CSM. So much to list, sometimes you stand aside, sometimes you don’t agree, but I am extremely proud of the course EVE and CCP is moving with the CSM. The release cycle based on sprints is giving us more content and features then you have ever had in EVE. Crest, occupancy, wormhole, so much more too come, and every month the box of Pandora opens. I cant wait for what CCP throws next at us.
Some people ask me if I feel a CCP pet, a token public figure rather then a council. Being in for the bigger part of the term the answer is no. If you really like to hear more about that, listen too the evesterdam thingie, though I warn you , its 1 hour….
CSM10.. when I started CSM was something I always wanted to do, much like owning a titan, building a station, owning sov, kill supers. It turned into much more, a way to express love for EVE, respect for the people that build it, and a way to make a voice heard that wants to help EVE into the next decade. I never thought I would like to run again, but I will if providence region keeps appreciating me as their representive also for next year. Of course it’s not just your alliance and friends. I have gotten so many votes from friends, reds, people who believe null sec is more than 2 blocks nailing each other too the wall. Small scale PVP, localized conflicts, occupancy based sov, and income, build local, sell local. Close communities and the this is eve feeling expressed in the awesome new video. Winter summit and fanfest are still too come, and have offered the opportunity to attend them both, which is epic.
I met more people this year than in a entire eve life,of all sorts and sizes and met unexpected friends and enemies. So make sure you vote for CSM 10, last year my election was a surprise too many, this year lets show this wasn’t a one time event. I will be running again for a null sec outside the major blocks, for a daily skirmish based game play where you don’t just login when you get a jabberping. Where 1 big war is replaced by 10-15 localised ones. Where fatigue matters and adds a tactical layer.
Eve is a niche game, cut throat, insanely caring, and one hell of a rush, call me an EVE addict!
See you at Fanfest 2015, EVEsterdam 2015, provi Copenhagen and in game.
Links:
EN24 Interview Regarding Nullsec Changes