Hello Capsuleers!
It's been a little while since you've heard from the Operations team, so we thought we would give you a progress report on building the new server cluster that powers EVE Online. For a good initial overview of the project, check out this dev blog.
With endless amount of meetings, planning , reviewing, and reiterating the configuration while waiting for the hardware to arrive on the shores of Iceland, we finally have all the pieces together to construct this magnificent puzzle.
As I type this, the OPS team is building TQ Tech III. From a timeline perspective we have had some extra help - for instance 2016 is a leap year so we gained a whole working day in February 29th, which helps! Also we were prepared to assemble all the servers from millions of tiny pieces like each RAM chip and endless amount of fans, but all the bits actually were delivered assembled so we just hauled it from Nýherji (IBM Iceland) to CCP Headquarters in half a day instead of about two days.
We set up a camera to record a time lapse for a long and very repetitive assembly day, but then it turned out to be a very short and dull video of us unpacking boxes, as you can see here:
So then, back to CCP HQ.
Setting this up in our staging racks was way more fun, and seeing the new hardware come to life after months and months of talks and actually getting to touch this beautiful hardware was exhilarating. I imagine it being similar to undocking your first capital ship.
Right now we have the virtual environment up and running and operating systems deployed. We have already seen preliminary boosts. For example, in code deployment it now takes 2-3 min to push out a build vs 10-13 min.
It is way too soon to say or even brag about the improvements for EVE, but stuff like this is fun to see in the early stages. Here are two simple demos to demonstrate the sheer power of this cluster when it comes to "non-EVE" performance.
First we have a Virtual Machine migration, which is in essence a copy paste of a server's memory (4GB of RAM in this case) from one physical host to another physical host. As you can see, the new hardware is awesome!
Then here we have a Virtual Server running on Tranquility Tech III being rebooted. I counted about 5 seconds .