I also wanted to address how CCP devs actively play the game in a very real way after the issue was brought up by a player. After all, how can a dev balance the demands of a large 0.0 bloc FC if they can’t experience said gameplay themselves? This is something I pointed at CCP Rise and Fozzie when they came on Crossing Zebras a few weeks back and I believe CCP will act on this in the not too distant future.
So much of what CSM does can be difficult to define to the player base because it is suggestions and tweaks here and there. I’m pleased that during my tenure, I’ve been able to get concrete things achieved in working with CCP and it is proof to me that the system works.
Steve Ronuken
This term's been great. While there's been some misunderstandings (generally oversights, like the jump changes, or just too short a time to react), in general, communication's been pretty good.
I was elected on a platform of representing both industrialists, and third party developers. While a lot of the industrial changes were locked in before I was elected (big changes need a good chunk of work) A bunch of fine tuning happened. I'm pretty happy with how all of that's worked out. Still room for improvement, when teams get reintroduced for example, but it's generally small tweaks, rather than anything big.
When it comes to third party development, great things have been happening. SSO has been deployed, and is in use by many sites. Not only that, but CREST is finally up and running, serving market data to a number of sites, where it's then federated out. Your support has proven to CCP how important third party development is to the player base, which has given mandate to developers like CCP Foxfour to work on getting yet more tools into our hands. I can't wait to see what happens next.
A great example of how the CSM can interact with CCP, is the recent addition of the small ore anomaly in the rookie systems. With the recent influx of newbies, CCP Manifest gave members of the CSM access to the Rookie help channel (we may have badgered him a little) A number of us have been spending time there, helping out, and making notes about the questions we've seen on a regular basis.