VULNERABILITY AND TIME ZONE MECHANICS
The designs surrounding vulnerability windows and time zones have been a major area of focus for us over recent months. Time zone safety is an absolutely critical part of any capture system in a worldwide game like EVE Online, and it is also one of the most challenging aspects of the design to get right.
Time zone safe game systems are those that allow players to determine the rough time period in which events can occur and their assets are in danger. They play two crucial roles in a game like EVE:
They prevent players from losing their stuff while they are unavoidably away from the game (work, sleep, etc). Nobody should feel the need to play the game 24/7 in order to be competitive.
They encourage players to show up at the same place at the same time, facilitating multiplayer gameplay. Playing with and outplaying other human beings is the core of EVE, and putting players in contact with each other is a big part of that. If people can fight over an asset without ever coming into contact with each other, we've lost something very valuable.
The initial design for reaching these goals was explained in the previous Sov dev blog, and we have been working with the community to improve and refine the designs from that point. We created a Sovereignty time zone mechanics survey which has been immensely helpful in collecting your feedback. As of now, the survey has received a little over ten thousand responses and we’re extremely grateful to everyone who took the time to participate, especially those of you who filled out the text answers.
We’re ready to announce two significant changes to the earlier vulnerability window design, which we believe will improve the system significantly and address the most crucial player needs expressed in your feedback.
Firstly, it will be possible for alliances to set custom vulnerability timers per structure.
 Many players have expressed concerns that the alliance-wide prime time windows will reduce their freedom to designate certain structures and/or areas for defense by certain time zones within their alliance.
Under the new version of the vulnerability window design, each alliance will still have a default prime time set, and all newly captured or deployed structures would take on that default. Once the structure is in place though, the alliance would be able to choose to separate the structure from the default vulnerability timer and set a custom timer.
Changes to the vulnerability timer of a structure will have a delay before taking effect to prevent alliances from shifting timers to dodge enemies.
This system will allow alliances to choose their level of customization. If your alliances wishes, it can keep all Sovereignty structures on the alliance default to keep management simple, or it can spread out vulnerability windows to provide content for members within many different time zones.
In addition, vulnerability windows will now scale in size based on the Activity Defense Multiplier.
This is an idea that was first suggested by Steve Ronuken at the CSM 9 Winter Summit, and has come up quite a few times since in the community feedback. In conjunction with the addition of the alliance capital systems described above, we believe that it has the potential to significantly improve the options for attacking forces in many time zones as well as reinforcing the importance of the Activity Defense Multiplier and active occupancy of Sovereignty systems.
Under the new design, the vulnerability window of each structure would get longer or shorter depending on the activity defensive multiplier of its specific system. The alliance chooses the middle of the window and the window scales in size in both directions from that middle.
The length of the vulnerability window would be 18 hours divided by the activity defensive multiplier (leading to windows ranging in length from 18 hours to 3 hours). Since the timer is divided by the activity index it begins to drop fast as the activity index increases even slightly. A system with Military and Industrial each at 1 would already have shrunk its vulnerability window all the way to 8.18 hours. A system with Military 5 and Strategic 5 (quite common) would have a vulnerability window of 4 hours.
To ensure that players are not surprised by last minute changes in vulnerability windows, the length of each day's vulnerability window will be locked in at the midpoint of the vulnerability window the day before.
Combined, we believe that these updates to the Sovereignty design represent significant improvements that will help ensure that we get the best possible system this summer. Team Five 0 wants to once again express our sincere thanks to every member of the community who has provided us with reasoned feedback.