We will spare you the endless debates, bartering sessions and casualty reports coming out after locking two dozen EVE developers in various meeting rooms and go straight to the point: we have decided to start with Market and Office Hubs, but with a twist.
Since we like giving you a place you can call home and collectively interact with, be it for cooperative or competitive needs, this role is ideal to start with. At the same time we want to achieve much more than just adding a fresh coat of paint on existing structures. We want to develop their use in the EVE universe and develop excitement as a whole.
 “Market and Office Hubs” sounds a little bland, like another day at the office dealing with a grumpy boss and an unreliable coffee machine. How about we spice that up a little bit?
Of all the structures, we want these to be the most dedicated to asset safety, protection, and a feeling of home – just like when you are tucked inside your bed sheets while the elements rage outside. At your coziest you should be fortified in giant bunkers equipped with mega death rays to weather the storm.
As such, we are slightly changing the purpose of the Market and Office Hubs structures and renaming them “Citadels” to give a better approximation of what they do (note: I initially wanted to have them called “space châteaux” but got rejected by a team full of damn barbarians who don’t know what good French taste is).
In time they will still retain the other functionality mentioned (Market, corporation offices, cloning, insurance, character customization, Customs Office and potentially Interbus), as we release new service modules.
CCP Nag and CCP Maximum Cats have scattered a few concept arts for the Citadel structures within this dev blog for you to feast your eyes upon. As usual, please remember those are still work in progress and may not represent final look.
PICK ON A BULLY YOUR OWN SIZE
As mentioned during the Fanfest presentation and associated Dev Blog, structures are sorted in various shape and sizes. Citadels are no exception.
Medium sized Citadel structures will be around 5-25km in diameter and are tailored for individual or small groups of players. They will be able to fit some appropriate defenses to offer resistance against most kind of assaults including capital ships. Moreover, players can dock inside them with sub-capital ships.
Large sized Citadel structures will be around 25-50km in diameter and are made for corporations or even small alliances. They will offer more advanced functionality over medium-sized Citadels, mainly in the form of area of effect (AoE) defenses and facilities that are more tailored to support large fleets. While players will be able to dock with sub-capitals, capitals are still up to debate at this point.
X-Large sized Citadel structures will be around 100km in diameter and are specialized for high-end alliance gameplay. On top of the mechanics listed above, they will have the best defensive options to face against particularly large groups and allow capital ships to be docked (even maybe supercapitals--to be discussed).
Most if not all of those structures will have a replacement for the current Starbase forcefield with the use of the invulnerability link (final name to be discussed), which will ensure safety for friendly ships within a specific radius. This will not cause your ship to stay in space when logging off.
Sizes also determine their release order.
We will start by focusing on Medium and Large Citadels, since we believe they offer gameplay that extends to most player groups. They also are a lot simpler than X-Large Citadels to design and implement.
When Medium and Large Citadels are out and we have gained some experience through them, we will then deploy the X-Large variation which offer much more challenge in their conception due to their humongous sizes and intended use cases.
CAPTURE THE FLAG