The CSM X Candidacy period closes at 11:30 UTC on 15th of February, 2015. 
Voting starts at 11:30 GMT on 25th of February.
What should you know before you apply
Please read the following before you decide to apply.
The Council of Stellar Management is a democratically elected institution of fourteen EVE players that is chosen annually. Members of the CSM are in close and constant contact with EVE Development. Twice a year we host CSM summits. Summit can last up to 5 days and up to 10 members of the CSM will fly to CCP headquarters in Reykjavik, Iceland to participate in person. The rest of the CSM will join the summit remotely.
Before considering running for election as part of the CSM, players need to be aware that becoming a CSM delegate requires a lot of effort and that Council duties take a lot of time, strength and patience. If you are elected to the council you will be representing thousands of people who gave their vote for you. This is a colossal responsibility that you should be prepared for.
We value the council as part of the development process. As such they maintain knowledge and information relating to every aspect of the development of EVE Online with their opinions and suggestions touching every aspect of gameplay. In addition to this, the CSM’s voice is heard in areas of the company outside the development team, including with the marketing and sales departments, our cinematic team, and our public relations team.
The CSM have an impact not only on how we develop EVE, but how we communicate with our player base and prospective new customers. Every member has a chance to influence the future of EVE by actively contributing to the process.
Members of the council have access to the internal communication tools CCP uses and information about upcoming, unannounced  changes to EVE Online. You should be willing to use this trust responsibly. We expect council delegates to be ready and able to join online meetings with CCP and to be a part of internal discussions. 
Any behavior or actions considered being a material breach of the EULA, TOS or NDA by a CSM delegate is grounds for immediate dismissal and permanent exclusion from all pending and future participation in the council. There are no exceptions or “first strikes” regardless of the infraction. Delegates are not only expected to uphold the social contract that all society members are held accountable to, but should also set a behavior standard for everyone else to follow.
Requirements and application process