But... Why?
After the initial psychological adjustment period of the new icons had passed, many of you rightly asked us: why had we decided to overhaul the bracket icons to begin with? There wasn’t anything imminently bad about the previous set, players were used to them, and had gotten accustomed to staking their situational awareness and expensive ships on quickly recognizing the tiny differences in square sizes and cross thicknesses that defined ships on grid for years. So why the change?
To answer that better, these were our initial goals for the update (some of which were laid out on the first devblog many moons ago:
Improving player’s situational awareness and reaction times in combat.
We wanted to give players more icon granularity within ship groups and items. And we wanted to increase the skill ceiling of reading the grid at a glance, so that players who learned the expanded set of icons had a distinct battlefield advantage.
A clearer system for identifying different objects in space.
Intended for veterans and newbies alike to be able to better read situations and assess threat levels. A cruiser and a battleship represent wholly different tactical scenarios, yet both had the same icon under the old system. Additionally some objects didn’t have any icons whatsoever, and many fundamentally different objects had used the same base icon for years.
Unifying the iconography with the ship tree in ISIS.
This one was aimed primarily at newer players who are familiar with the Interbus Ship Identification System (ISIS) for learning the vast number of ships it is possible to fly and encounter. Thus having the in-space brackets of the ships they encounter match the ISIS tree was an important connection to make. Initially our plan was to migrate the old ISIS icons into the brackets, but our testing and feedback showed us they were simply not designed to be usable at the small bracket scale. So we made a completely new set that could be used at both scales and simply ported it over to ISIS.
Catering to several years of feedback telling us the old bracket system, separating ships only by size categories, was not as useful as it could be.
While this has been hotly debated since, especially on the distinction between categories: player and NPC ships, and ships and drones were arguably clearer with the original brackets (more on this below). But initially this was a guiding goal.
That’s the why of the update to bracket icons. Now let’s get into the how.
A Method to the Madness       
The many in-space entities you can encounter in EVE can be categorized in numerous ways, and along different axes. We knew we needed a system of underlying rules for managing the expanded set of icons so that certain heuristics, or groupings, could be identified at a glance.
This began with the most high-level separations, for which we assigned a basic shape profile:
Ships (Triangular) - Can move, are manmade.
Structures (Rectangular) - Are immobile, are manmade.
Celestial Bodies (Circular) - Are immobile (technically speaking), were birthed in the big bang.
Another super important axis of distinction was between entities that were player controlled vs. NPC/AI controlled. After several explorations we settled on NPC entities having the same base shape, but with an inner fill compared to their player-controlled counterparts.
It’s important to note that initially the reason we decided NPC entities should be filled-in and player entities should be wireframes was that players could gather in potentially far larger groups. And with large-scale blob engagements it was important to keep their icons as “light” on pixels as possible to maintain readability.