All of this makes it very difficult to work as the institution should. Some EVE pundits will say that the CSM is a toothless institution that CCP uses when convenient or as a marketing tool, and nothing more. There's some truth to that. The CSM was designed around a titled system with a Chair and two releases per year. The institution hasn't adapted, and its relevance, such as it was, has suffered because of it.
Part of this is the CSM's fault. It wasn't until we hit a couple days before a recent release and collectively realized that we didn't have any idea what it was going to contain that we looked around and took stock of where we were. Though there are some bright spots, the overall outlook isn't positive. The CSM should have realized this sooner, and we should have been more insistent on being given the access we require to fill the role we were elected to fill. The situation is also not helped by members of the CSM who are afk to the point of uselessness.
Part of this is CCP's fault. While I recognize that they are busy meeting the demands of the new release schedule, to be a perpetual afterthought does somewhat sap the enthusiasm of even the most ardent public servant, and it is difficult to engage when there is nothing with which to engage. In some cases, the CSM has been specifically sidelined. In other cases, the CSM has been treated as an enemy, something to deal with if necessary but otherwise best ignored.
The reason this is so is because, broadly speaking, CCP does not handle criticism well. There have been instances where CSM members have offered appallingly uncalled-for and highly unprofessional input and critiques. But well reasoned counter-arguments and constructive criticism that doesn't match devthink is frequently taken as a personal affront as well.
This is fine as long as everyone agrees, but over the course of even this term, everyone agreeing on everything is an impossibility. With short one-year terms and no compelling reason to engage with the CSM, this means that ignoring the CSM or members of the CSM is entirely viable.
CCP Falcon and CCP Leeloo have been tremendous. They have waged many battles on the CSM's behalf, and it is in them that the hope of institution is vested. If it weren't for them, their hard work, dedication, and patience, I would have given up long ago and certainly wouldn't be standing for re-election. The CSM itself and various individual members have accomplished goals and played an important role in a few key situations. There is thus still cause to try and push for change.
So instead of giving up, I've been attempting to reform the organization. I don't like organizational inefficiencies, and if CCP isn't going to talk to me about my other specialty areas, I figure reform attempts are the best way to remain engaged. The CSM would, if used correctly, be an incredible asset. The problem is that there are certain institutional and attitudinal blocks that prevent the CSM from reaching its potential. Some CSM side, some CCP side. To date, I've had very little success in this regard, in no small part due to only recently realizing the magnitude of the issue. It also likely hasn't helped that I call things like I see them.
So that's what I've been doing. I spent the first half of my term trying to illuminate player psychology from my unique position, and I spent the rest of it trying to figure out how to get the CSM and CCP in a place where such input from myself and others on various topics wouldn't be summarily dismissed out of hand.
I don't think pretty little lies or carefully constructed facades do the CSM or CCP any service. If the institution is to properly evolve, we're going to have to take a hard look at some uncomfortable truths and try to figure out how to address them.
At the end of the day, the CSM and CCP aspire to the same goals. These are a robust game and a vibrant community. If we can ever work well together, the whole will assuredly be greater than the sum of the parts. It may not be possible, but the potential gains make it worth attempting.
Mike Azariah
What have we done or more specifically what have I done. Well, the biggest specific thing I pushed for (and got) was the Bowhead project. The more vague goal early in the term was work with the PvE team on incursions as well as representing highsec and the casual play style.
The most effort I made was in keeping the lines of communication with players going via the eve Forums and through podcasts. I have been a regular on Podside and Eve Radio DJ Wiggles show as well as 'hotdropping' several others. I tried to be open to input from whatever source and, like Sugar, keep a book in which I take notes of things to talk to the devs about.
As a group the CSM has spent a lot of time adapting to the new faster (MUCH faster) pace of the release schedule. Things change so quickly that some does not get seen by us much sooner than it is is seen on the test server. Other broader strokes we try to get input as early as is possible. Do we know everything and see everything? No, and I am not sure that that is even possible. A summit often covers projects coming up but then that project is done and two more run before another summit happens. This goes back to CSM 8's attempt to build more bridges to other teams and get more lines of communication open to the devs. 
Progress and change have been made. The decision to eliminate officers showed that we could function without them. Personal projects and one on one contact with devs started to replace the idea that we need to talk to entire teams taking them all away from the job at hand. Helping bridge the gap between players and the dev teams have lead to a more open and direct exchange of ideas with CSM acting as enablers, not the conduit itself. Hell, if we do this well enough we might manage to organize ourselves right out of a job. Or, better yet, change the job as this one will be done and we can take on a different aspect.