In the end I think that is the biggest truth about CSM, it is what we allow it to be and it changes to match the environment it is in. I have enjoyed the past two terms watching the changes happen and hope for another to continue helping it grow, change, become something more, even if I do not know what the more will be.
Xander Phoena
It was well known that I was a staunch supporter of the CSM process before being elected myself onto CSM 9. I was of the firm belief that while the process wasn’t perfect, the CSM offered a very real way of allowing players to actively engage CCP in improving Eve Online. I am happy to say that for the most part, my suspicions have been confirmed.
I had set goals I wanted to achieve this term and there were two key points in particular. The first was to see some concrete progress on fixing the well-documented issues on 0.0. While I can take no credit for this coming to the table during CSM’s term – CCP had already decided that this was to be a high priority during our tenure – I feel we have worked hard where we could to guide CCP in what the players are thinking towards fixes with 0.0. An example would be how the jump drive changes were originally slated to affect Jump Freighters. It was clear to us that 0.0 industry was not yet in a place where such a nerf would be appropriate and we were sure to let CCP know this as did the community at large.
The second goal I had was to be a clear communication conduit from CCP to the player base and vice versa. Through the weekly CSM 9 Reports I have been doing throughout the entirety of my term as well as engaging players through my podcast, my website and through forums such as Zulu and #tweetfleet I feel people find me approachable when it comes to their concerns with the game as well as providing regular updates on what we are actually up to. This is something that can always be improved upon of course and I hope to up the ante if elected to CSM X. 
A couple of things that came slightly out of the blue which I wanted resolved have come to me from the player base since I was elected. The first was the issue of input automation which I very quickly engaged CCP on with initially, limited success. I requested a session to discuss this at length at the Summer Summit and you can read how that particular conversation went in the Summit Minutes. It was clear that this urgently needed addressing so it was fantastic to see CCP clarify what was a previously grey area and to feel I personally played a significant part in that.