These changes consist of:
A significant decrease in the spawn rate of direct Nullsec to Nullsec wormhole connections (which are not the primary method of WH roaming travel but are some of the hardest connections to counter with defensive play).
Small decreases in the spawn rate of random Null -> C5 and C5 -> Null connections. This change does not affect static connections.
A decrease in the lifetime of Nullsec WH connections to 16 hours (most were previously 24 hours).
We are also making some slight tweaks to the Quantum Flux Generator system upgrade in our July 14th release. These are intended as a slight buff to anyone who uses Quantum Flux Generators for PVE daytripping, while also addressing concerns expressed by some CSM members. With these changes we still don’t expect that most alliances will find the Quantum Flux Generators to be extremely valuable, but hopefully their PVE value should increase somewhat.
All of the July 14th PVE changes are available for testing on our Duality test server right now! They’ve actually been there for a while but we felt it was a pretty safe assumption that nobody was going to spend their time ratting on the test server without being informed about the changes first.
LOOKING TO THE FUTURE: MORE COMPREHENSIVE ACTIVITY DEFENSE MULTIPLIERS
As we have mentioned in the past, one of the highest priority areas for continued improvement beyond our main summer sov release is improvements to the Activity Defense Multiplier. The first iteration of the Defense Multiplier is completely tied to the old sov index values. These make a decent measure of the most common types of Nullsec PVE and greatly simplify the transition from the old system to the new. However there are a great many forms of local Nullsec activity that are not counted by these indexes and there is a great deal of room for improvement.
In upcoming releases we are planning to make significant updates to the Activity Defense Multipliers to make them more accurately reflect real system occupancy.
The biggest area of improvement would likely be in expanding what activities feed into the Defense Multiplier. Unfortunately there are some activities that cannot be made to powerfully influence the Multiplier without becoming exploitable (PVP kills and Manufacturing jobs are the classic examples). However we are investigating ways that some expanded activities such as Planetary Interaction and Data/Relic sites can contribute to the index, as well as keeping the option open of including manufacturing, trade and research in some limited capacity if they can be made to work.
We are also investigating options around allowing activity by members of the Sov owning Alliance to count more heavily than activity by others.
LOOKING TO THE FUTURE: ENCOUNTER SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM CHANGES
Another area where we see great potential for improvement is with the Encounter Surveillance System. This mobile deployable structure was introduced in Rubicon 1.1 as a way for Sov owners to increase their profits if they are willing to add risk of theft. They are still seeing some use, however we believe they can do much better. The basic concept is strong, but they are in need of iteration.
We are investigating an update pass on the ESS in which we would simplify its operation by converting it to use the Entosis Link for sharing and stealing, restrict its deployment locations somewhat, and increase the potential value to match the higher risk. The ESS has great potential for allowing Sov holders to choose the level of risk they are comfortable with and receive rewards that match. A revamped ESS also has potential to provide excellent content for roaming PVP forces as well.
Expect to hear more about potential ESS changes in the coming months, as we continue our investigations and solicit your feedback.
LOOKING TO THE FUTURE: DEDICATED GROUP PVE FROM INFRASTRUCTURE UPGRADES
One other concept under investigation at the moment is a new Infrastructure Upgrade that would generate dedicated group content for Sovholders. We have never been particularly satisfied with how the majority of Sov upgrade PVE content tends to lean towards solo or multibox play. There is huge potential for reliable and interesting group PVE content in Nullsec. Team Five 0 is hoping to be able to take what we have learned from developing Burner Missions and combine it with the new NPCs and AI under development by Team Space Glitter to create some compelling new content that would only be available to groups of pilots working together within Sov Null. Our leading concepts at this point make use of an Incursion-like scaling payout based on character numbers. These designs are still at an early stage, but we expect to spend the next few months discussing these goals with you and working towards some exciting new content.
Thank you for joining us today for this dev blog. We are very excited to be releasing the new Sov system for all of you this week, alongside these PVE and Infrastructure updates. Huge thanks to everyone who has provided us feedback all throughout this process, and to everyone who has joined the community discussions that provide us with such a great source of inspiration.
From all of us here at Team Five 0 and the whole of EVE Development, good hunting!
alt