We aim to add the first batch of alliance logos that are approved to the game in the June release, on June 2nd to be precise.
After that, given the new release cadence, the wait for your alliance logo to be displayed in game could be as short as 3-5 weeks depending on the release schedule, when you submit the logo, and how busy the submission queue is.
What about existing alliance logos in game? Will they be removed?
All existing alliance logos that are currently in game will be removed from the game, as they do not comply with the new submission requirements. However, we’d like to give a grace period before this, so that alliance are not left without an in-game identity.
We intend to remove all existing alliance logos from the game with the June 2nd release. This means that if you submit your new alliance logo before then, the transition will be seamless and your logo will simply be updated, rather than reverting to the default placeholder logo.
Why has the alliance size requirement changed for logo eligibility?
We have increased the minimum size and age of an alliance that is required to be eligible for an alliance logo in order to ensure that alliances who submit logos for approval are reasonably well established and stable before their logos are added to the game.
What about alliances that have logos in game now that don’t meet the new requirements?
It would obviously be unfair for us to deny an alliance that already has a logo in game the ability to carry over a new design with the new submission process. As such alliance whose member count or age are below the requirement, but whom already have a logo represented in game will be permitted to submit a new logo to have their original updated.
Will all alliances who have a logo in game right now be automatically approved with a new logo if it is the same as the old one?
No. Any alliance logos submitted after this announcement will need to comply with the new requirements laid out above. If existing logos contain material that is copyrighted by other real world organizations, or content that does not fit within the content guidelines previously explained in this blog, then logos will not be re-approved.
What if I have other questions regarding alliance logo submissions?
Please ask in this thread, and your questions will be answered.
We look forward to seeing some awesome alliance logo designs from you guys in the coming weeks!
@CCP_Falcon
EVE Universe Community Manager