Greetings Capsuleers,
I am here to invite you to come along for a time travel adventure as we take a look at the past year through the eyes of members of Ninth Council of Stellar Management, especially timely since players have already started to toss their hat into the ring of the Tenth Council elections.
Here is a run down of key dates in the run up to the election of the Tenth Council:
January 30th 2015 - CSM X Candidacy Period opens
February 15th 2015 - CSM X Candidacy Period closes
February 25th 2015 - CSM X Election - Voting opens
March 10th 2015 - CSM X Election - Voting closes
March 21st 2015 - CSM X Results announced during CCP Presents Keynote at Fanfest 2015
For those readers who are new to EVE, or who are unfamiliar with what exactly the CSM is, let me explain in a little more detail. The Council of Stellar Management is a democractically elected body of fourteen EVE Online players who are chosen annually by the EVE Community and represent various demographics within New Eden.
Council members are in constant contact with the EVE Online dev team in order to have a front line, up to date view on features and improvements that are currently being developed for EVE. They are also responsible for bringing the opinions, concerns, suggestions and ideas of their constituents to CCP for consideration. They sign a non-disclosure agreement so we can bring even more ideas to them, many of which we may not take beyond the initial design phases.
This time around as their term comes to an end, we decided that CSM members should speak directly to you about how 2014 has progressed in the form of a guest blog. With almost no edits made, we are releasing it into your hands to provide the most clear and comprehensive look at the CSM’s year from some of those who were on the council.
The CSM is an institution that is in constant development and it would be unfair to say that it is perfect. There have been ups and downs during the course of this year and we have had to find our weak spots to ensure that we are developing an efficient working process to fit our new, faster release model.
There are even more changes coming with the Tenth Council, a lot of which will be revealed with my next blog regarding the upcoming opening of candidacy for CSM X.
We are incredibly thankful for the contributions that the delegates of CSM 9 have brought to what has been a year of great change for CCP, and would like to express our gratitude for their dedication and candid communication when dealing with the challenges we’ve faced this year while adapting the CSM to fit with the new release model.