This gave a much better break down on the income which I was much happier about. I also did a simplified version for general release to W-space, found here.
The total time spent for these two tasks was over three hundred hours. This includes getting modules, fitting ships, finding wormholes, and all of the little details needed to set up and run sites.
Wormhole little things were next. This started as a general little things thread on the forum found here. I gathered most of the good ideas in this google doc. Asayanami Dei has since tied this up a lot. A fair few of these little things have already been done. Sigs staying over down time and splitting of probe scanner and D scan have been HUGE quality of life things for W-space.
Next came PvE little things. This came from the sounding board (more on this later), where CCP Affinity suggested setting up a thread for wormhole PvE little things.The thread can be found in this thread.
Hearts and Minds
During the summer sumit I realized that there was conflict between how the developers felt about w-space and how the residents of w-space reacted to potential developmental changes. The negative push back from the player base did affect the potential of changes to some degree. What had to be made clear was that the player reaction was their passion for wormhole space and their desire to not lose anything that they loved about it.
I was blunt. If people wanted interactions with developers they needed to control their emotions and be productive with their criticism. I decided to set up a Skype “wormhole round table” channel with assorted members of wormhole space and several developers who were doing work inside of wormholes. At the present it has 4 CCP people in (big thanks to CCP Affinity, CCP Fozzie, CCP Leeloo and CCP Manifest) and 21 W-space people mainly diplos/leadership from C1 to C6 and 3 CSM (Me, Asay and Sugar). both me and Asay have been slowly adding people to this channel. So far I’ve had no complaints from CCP members in here and hope its helped out. So far I’m pretty pleased with how its going.