Creative space friends,
We here at CCP have long sought out player created material to use in our streaming efforts and in social media because, in so many ways, it’s the best material. I ask you, who sleeps without hearing the roars of Metal Camel from the Alliance tournament broadcast?! We’ve had an open mailbox (share@eveonline.com) for anything your fertile minds cook up or come across – things that we have shared on our social media channels through the years.
These submissions and tips have been invaluable to us since we only have so many sets of eyes (CCP Manifest is the only one with more than two) to scour the EVE universe and its fringes. These submissions have allowed us to act as a bullhorn, as a magnifying glass, and as a giant highlighter for all the wonderful things that you do. They have connected you with each other, given the creators the recognition they deserve, and inspired future content producers.
Now that we have even more means of communicating your genius, like the almost-monthly EVE Online show ‘o7’, we want to refresh this open invitation and ask for more of your submissions – big and small. What we are looking for is something that you think is worth highlighting. Anything from a cool screenshot, news of an important event, links to amazing battle reports, a shout-out to someone you think has done something admirable, a poem about CCP Guard’s classic-yet-youthful hairstyle, pvp video, artwork, “EVE is Real” photo, tips about a great player-run project or anything else that in your mind deserves praise and attention.
Please send what you have to share@eveonline.com using a descriptive title, and note that some submissions may be end up being used for our social channels while some may get a mention on the global internet spaceship television or elsewhere, the important thing is to make sure our D-Scans pick up everything (except recons of course heh). But then we also want to ask for more…
TV Ads for o7: The EVE Online show - and other CCP streams
From those willing to put in the extra work, we want to get new advertisements to premiere LIVE on the internet’s favorite spaceship themed talk show, and we want to loosen up the premise a little bit. You can advertise your corporation or alliance for pure bragging rights or for recruitment purposes, a project you are running, your CSM candidacy or you can advertise an event that is about to take place. We don’t want to limit you and tell you what is worth highlighting or how to do it, as long as you follow these simple rules: