IMPROVEMENT GOALS
Our exploratory work highlighted many pain points in the existing structures design. Since they have been progressively added one after another over a long period of time (the first Starbase structures were added during the Exodus expansion in 2004), they show disparate behaviors in their functions, use, attack and management options.
Our first deliverable was as such to come up with a list of high-end goals that any new structure system should aspire towards. Those became:
Support and enhance existing gameplay: We found early on that structures have no need for new mini-games or to introducing radically new ways of playing EVE. Their main appeal is to improve, create or magnify gameplay in the area they control. For example Starbases work best to give capsuleers an edge when manufacturing, or contesting space. Adding a mini-game to deploy Starbase structures and link them together was not something with enough perceived value to pursue.
Everyone who wants to use a structure, does: We want structures to be as widely used as possible, by removing artificial barriers or mechanics that may be in the way. This has to stay within a reasonable risk versus reward scope, of course, and as such the most rewarding structures should always be vulnerable to attack.
Strong connection with the player: This means we want to enthrall our players to feel meaningfully connected with the structures they deploy, use, and manage. We want them to have an active cooperative (or disruptive) role in the space around them so that players care about their placement.
Structure combat is more exciting: Structure combat leaves a lot to be desired, as the AI target selection is lacking, while defensive options are limited and not that effective. This goal ensures structures work well in asymmetrical warfare, being force multipliers in the area they contest to compensate for their static nature. We want structure combat to feel more like ship combat between several parties and less like a static grind.
Visually aspirational: This is self-explanatory, we want structures to feel imposing, visually rewarding as a whole. That includes showing different visuals for their various states, actions or reactions to their activities, but also making the largest structure feel like a great achievement for whichever social group managed to build them (or blow them up).
System is extensible, future proof and unifying: Our new system should be scalable and flexible enough to ensure it remains viable under design pressure over time, such as different player group sizes and evolving, emergent usage. It also means the system is flexible enough to add more functionality easily if the need arises.
Create more interesting locations in solar system: We want the new structure system to provide more locations for players to interact within EVE solar systems, which in turn will bolster emergent gameplay. We however need to make sure travel or critical player behavior is not negatively affected in the process.
Simple and intuitive to deploy, manage and use: We should strive to provide a stark improvement over management, deployment and usage tools currently in place for structures, which are not flexible nor powerful enough to account for our player needs.
Coherent progression between all structures: All structures should feel part of a natural progression system with niche roles in specialization branches, not being the norm. The basic interaction with all of them should feel consistent and natural no matter what their functions are.
Encourage interaction between groups of players: Partly covered before, we want our new system to greatly favor player interactions via cooperative or competitive gameplay. This not only means structures should matter to be considered primary targets, but also promote public participation if needed.