Structure rigs are lost forever, which is a 85 billion ISK loss.
A percentage of the materials used to build the titan will drop as loot. Blueprints are not affected. This again follows the same rules as standard loot mechanics.
All items located in the corporation hangar divisions are impounded. Items are kept inside containers but lose password protection and are saved for a person with sufficient roles within the Tasty Fougasse Republic™ to deliver.
All players that were docked in the structure are podded. Mrs. Madeleine Truffade loses her implants and is moved to her medical home station, Duripant VII – Moon 6 – Federal Navy Academy. All items located in personal hangars are saved for their owners to claim. This includes Madeleine’s Megathron. A notification will be sent to Madeleine explaining what happened.
To reclaim the corporation items, someone with sufficient roles can:
Pay 20 billion ISK (10% fee of 200 billion ISK) to have corporate items moved to Anin, the closest 0.4 solar system with NPC stations. The exact station picked will be the closest one to the destroyed structure. Items can be selected on a one by one basis if the person doesn’t want or cannot pay the full 20 billion ISK fee. Furthermore, a 6 days delay is imposed before items are moved to the destination. The Nyx will not be moved however, as it is a supercapital ship and is not eligible to be moved to a NPC station. It can only be recovered with the option below.
Build another Citadel in EC-P8R and reconnect it to the lost assets. No fee will need to be paid in that case, but a minimum time delay of 5 days will still be in place. Note that by doing so, all corporation members will also be able to deliver their own personal items without further hassle. The Nyx can only be delivered if the new Citadel structure is of an XL size, as it would not fit in a M or L class.
Please note the Tasty Fougasse Republic™ cannot tamper with Madeleine Truffade’s personal hangar items or deliver them on her behalf. Those are hers and hers alone.
CONCLUSION
And that’s it regarding asset safety. We do hope that by now you have a clearer picture on how new structures are going to work. There is still much we need to talk about, like structure price, acquisition, exact defensive capabilities, fittings, fuel, services or bonuses, so expect more blogs incoming as we flesh details out.
Fly safe, and may the odds be in your favor.