One of them was 'Where do I mine?' closely followed by 'where do I find asteroids?' I put up a thread on the CSM forums, asking for something to be done. A few suggestions were thrown in, and we pointed the thread out to CCP Rise (as he's doing NPE stuff) A short while later, he pitched the anomaly as a solution.
The job the the CSM is talking. Talking to players, to gather their concerns and goals, and talking to CCP, about what we think the game needs, and what our opinions are on the route they're taking. This needs, of course, for CCP to listen to us. Sometimes this breaks down, sometimes a dev just doesn't think to talk to us, but it's getting better. Yelling is (generally) not the route forwards. It's a conversation, which means you can't force it. If you think "I'll get elected to the CSM, and yell at CCP to make something happen", you're not going to get very far. Always think out your arguments, and don't get heated about it. No-one likes a yelling match, or to have their hand forced.
Some people have said that being on the CSM takes a lot of time. It's true, if a touch misleading. It's not something you do for an hour a week, taking breaks whenever you want (unless you want to be useless.) You keep the conversation going, talking to CCP daily, responding to player concerns when they come in. It's time consuming in that you'll be doing something most days. And there are sometimes meetings which you should attend (and the summit takes a good chunk of time). But it's not like you're going to be doing nothing but that.
All in all, this has been a good and productive term. I'm looking forwards to hopefully serving on CSM 10.
CCP Falcon
Community Manager
CSM 9’s term has been incredibly productive, but challenging at times. This was especially true when it came to adapting the seven year old concept of the CSM to a faster, more productive release model that takes into account ten releases per year, rather than two expansions.
While we’ve made good progress in this respect, there is still some way to go before the CSM’s transition to the new release model is complete and we can look at further expanding their role and interactions with CCP. This transition has to occur in a comfortable time frame, however it needs to be free from rash decisions and based on what we have learned during the course of CSM 9’s term.
During the course of their term, the council’s delegates have proven the CSM to be invaluable when CCP has been required to make difficult and sometimes controversial decisions when making changes to fundamental gameplay elements. Examples of this are during the wormhole mass changes, and of course the force projection changes, particularly those related to jump freighters.