THE WAR THUS FAR
Rather than recap it ourselves, we’ll let the players do so, as this conflict is entirely player-driven. This great writeup was posted on Reddit by ShadowPhynix. Skip to the TL-DR for the quickest overview.
WTF is going on? The Answer.
So I've been seeing a bunch of wtf is going on posts from travelers or people not fully aware of the war going on in Eve, and I got a few messages to post my writeup on the reddit rather than as a comment. So, without further ado:
The political structure of Eve before the war was CFC, a super-coalition of 40,000 members+ having total dominance in the north of the map, in an area called null sec (or 0.0 space, it's lawless and can be player owned). The hallmark of CFC is enormous numbers of people in generally cheap doctrines (doctrine being a set of ships and tactics) to outnumber an enemy. They were considered to be totally unassailable, possessing manpower and resources far beyond even the most powerful of entities in Eve.
Low Sec (0.1 - 0.4 space) is another area of space, and has some laws (not many though). The LowSec entities (known collectively as LSV) are constantly fighting over "moons" (a way of passively generating income for a player group), and their hallmark is obscenely expensive and skill intensive doctrines, to make up for comparatively very small numbers of players.
CFC, the big group up north, have been stagnating because no one wants to fight them (they're known for making fights not fun, by intentionally lagging servers, avoiding fights and when they do fight, bringing so many people they can't possibly lose). To counter-act this, they declared war on LSV to take their moons (the passive income thingys) and force them to fight.
This didn't work. Instead of steamrolling the LSV groups with minimal preparation and effort, they got crushed in pretty much every engagement. By this I mean they'd lose full fleets and kill only one or two ships in return. Gradually they got a little better, but they almost never did "well," almost always losing, and continued to be demolished by fleets that at times were a quarter their size or less.
To counter-act this, they prepared better and got more numbers. In response, the LSV entities put aside their constant squabbling and war mongering to band together into what is affectionately known as "Forming Voltron." (thus the name, Low Sec Voltron – LSV). LowSec Alliances might constantly fight and war with their rivals, but they all hate one thing above all others, and that’s outsiders. The same thing happened again, with CFC losing fights, but on a much larger scale with fights involving thousands of pilots.
After not only defending all their own moons, the LowSec entities proceeded to wipe CFC out of LowSec, taking all their valuable moons in the process. While this was happening, one of the larger Alliances in the CFC (who are a coalition of alliances) pissed of a group called I Want Isk (IWI), and enormously rich and powerful gambling organisation. Something about theft and betrayal, but regardless, they decided to pay these low sec groups to get revenge against the CFC for them (and is likely a major catalyst in them forming together so quickly).
Having successfully expelled CFC from Low Sec, LSV looked for future targets, and with likely direction from the IWI (gambler guys) and Tishu's BLOPs (battleships with a very long range jump drive to attack farming ships) campaign in Fade, set their sights on the north. With the assistance of virtually every major entity in Eve, who answered the call to arms from either being paid by IWI or the glory of the next major war, the new Coalition (who have yet to decide on an official name, although Money Badger Coalition (MBC) seems to be a front-runner) have begun an invasion.
Spread across numerous regions and hundreds of systems, MBC have begun to systematically drive out CFC from their homes. Currently most of the alliance sin the CFC are in full retreat, after having lost several regions that were previously thought to be impregnable. As it currently stands, a large portion of the CFC have been ordered to withdraw to the far north, the home of Goonswarm, the leaders and core of the CFC. A recent address by the leader of goonswarm indicates they intend to use the north as a base to harass the allies as they grind the regions in order to control them totally. As the allies begin to grind out the regions which are increasingly being left undefended, the last few pockets of resistance such as the Co2 Alliance are gradually being worn down.
It is assumed that at some point the allies will move further north, once their latest conquests are secure, to take the fight to Goons. If this happens, you can be almost certain that we will see another battle such as that of B-R5RB several years ago (you can look that up, CFC won that one), which resulted in hundreds of thousands of dollars’ worth of assets being lost.
In other words, it’s the war of a century in Eve, with pretty much the entirety of the PvP groups in the game all allied against a single super-coalition. Regardless of who wins, it's going to be a really cool time to be in the game.