Greetings productive capsuleers!
Today we’re glad to share with you another update on what the EVE Online team is working on in the run up to EVE Online: Ascension.
We have a huge number of features coming your way in Ascension including clone states, command bursts, mining foreman gameplay, updated NPE, new procedurally generated NPCs and much more. It’s now time to focus on some of the larger (we’re talking hundreds of kilometers in diameter) features that will be arriving in New Eden this November.
:This blog has been updated with the most recent numbers after changes to the plan thanks to the feedback of the EVE community. The most recent update was on November 8th.:
This November the Upwell Consortium will be introducing a new set of Standup-brand service modules that will expand comprehensive research and manufacturing support to the entire line of Upwell structures. These service modules will be fully compatible with existing Citadel structures, and Upwell will simultaneously be releasing a new set of Engineering Complex structures which are bonused for optimal performance with these service modules.
Initially codenamed Industrial Arrays, Upwell’s new line of Engineering Complexes are the second stage in the overhaul of the structures system in EVE Online. Arriving in the same size classes as Citadels (medium, large and extra-large), these new platforms are similar in function to the already familiar (and widely used) citadels. While Citadels focus on peak defensive capability, Engineering Complexes are more specialized towards research and manufacturing.
AT YOUR SERVICE: ENGINEERING SERVICE MODULES AND RIGS
With the arrival of Ascension, a selection of new Standup service modules will be made available to expand the functionality of Upwell structure and allow player organizations to tailor their structure to their needs more closely. These new Engineering Service Modules will be available for any type of Upwell structure (currently Citadels and Engineering Complexes) unless specifically noted:
Standup Manufacturing Plant I – allows manufacturing of items and ships. This does not include capital and supercapital class ships which have their own dedicated service modules
Standup Capital Shipyard I – allows manufacturing of capital ships and can only be installed in large and XL citadels and Engineering Complexes in lowsec, nullsec and wormhole space
Standup Supercapital Shipyard I - allows manufacturing supercapital ships and is exclusive for the Sotiyo XL Engineering Complex. This service module also requires capsuleer alliance sovereignty and the “Supercapital Construction Facilities” Infrastructure Hub upgrade
Standup Research Lab I – allows research and copying of blueprints
Standup Invention Lab I – allows invention of Tech 2 and Tech 3 blueprints
We have full details of current draft of fittings and fuel usage for these service modules at the end of the blog.
These new Engineering Service Modules are fully functional out of the box, but to get the best performance from them you will want to combine them with Engineering Rigs for your structures. These new rigs are available for all Upwell structures and provide significant bonuses to specific forms of industrial activity, allowing corporations to customize their structures to meet their specific needs.