A. Establishing a New Account
Upon establishing a new Account, you will be entitled to play EVE.for a stated period of time (not Once you have established an account, you will have an option to exceed thirty (30) days) without paying to pay a subscription fee (the "Trial Period"). If your Account is not terminated which will allow you to enjoy additional features in accordance with the procedures set forth below within the stated Trial Period, you will be charged the subscription fees as described during the registration process when you established your Account EVE.for a stated period of time (not Once you have established an account, you will have an option to exceed thirty (30) days) without paying to pay a subscription fee (the "Trial Period"). If your Account is not terminated which will allow you to enjoy additional features in accordance with the procedures set forth below within the stated Trial Period, you will be charged the subscription fees as described during the registration process when you established your Account EVE.
Only an individual, natural person who is an adult or, in the discretion of such an adult, his or her minor child, may establish an Account. You are responsible and liable for all activities conducted through your Account, regardless of who conducts those activities.
You may not share your Account with anyone, or allow anyone other than you personally (or your minor child, if you have registered an Account on behalf of your minor child) to access or use your Account. Joint or shared ownership or use of an Account by more than one user is prohibited.
Accounts may not be used for business purposes. Access to the System and playing EVE is intended for your personal entertainment, enjoyment and recreation, and not for corporate, business, commercial or income-seeking activities. Business entities and anyone who is acting for or on behalf of a business or for business purposes may not establish an Account, access the System or play EVE.  Accessing the System or using the Game for commercial, business or income-seeking purposes is strictly prohibited.