HOW DO COMMAND BURSTS WORK?
Command Bursts are high-slot modules that can be fit on the same classes of ships that can currently fit Warfare Links. There will be five types of Command Burst modules at launch, one for each of the existing fleet boost groups: Armor, Shield (formerly known as Siege), Information, Skirmish, and Mining.
These modules must be loaded with ammo in order to activate, and the ammo choices determine which bonus the module will provide to nearby fleetmates. Ammo can be swapped in the field to change bonuses as the situation changes, although a reload time of between thirty seconds and one minute means that choosing the right time to swap bonuses is important.
The ammunition for Command Bursts will be compact, inexpensive and manufactured by players primarily from ice product raw materials. We are planning for very large ammo capacities on the Burst modules themselves, so boosting characters will not need to reload often unless they are changing boost types. Command Burst modules will also require a moderate amount of capacitor to activate.
When activated, the Command Burst will apply bonuses to all fleetmates within range of the boosting ship, in a sizable sphere. Imagine a smartbomb that buffs your friends instead of damaging ships and you’ll get the idea. Activating a Command Burst will generate a weapons timer and therefore prevent the boosting ship from jumping through gates or docking for one minute. The area covered by the burst is clearly indicated by their visual effect:
When a fleetmate is hit by the Command Burst, their ship will receive a timed bonus lasting between 60 and 130 seconds that continues to operate even if they move out of range, or if the boosting ship dies. The bonus persists through warps within a system, but does not persist through docking and undocking or through system changes. The bonus is applied to the ship rather than the character, so swapping ships in space leaves the buff on your unpiloted old ship rather than having it follow you to the new ship. Since the burst that applies the timed bonus is instantaneous, any ships that enter range after the burst goes off will need to wait until the next cycle to receive their bonus.
Command Bursts will not apply their bonuses to any fleetmates that are tethered or within a starbase force field, and ships cannot activate their Command Burst modules if they themselves are within a force field.
Fleet hierarchy does not matter for these new bonuses, so any fleet member can provide bonuses to any fleetmate that is within range. All existing bonuses that use fleet hierarchy will be removed with this release. This means that passive bonuses provided to entire fleets from skills, implants and ship hulls will be removed and replaced with this new active module system. Titans will be receiving a special new Effect Generator capability that replaces their current passive bonuses (more details about Effect Generators later in the blog).
There will be restrictions on what ship types can fit Command Bursts and how many Command Bursts can be fit to any individual ships. We are planning on converting Command Processors (the module that allow a ship to fit more links) into a rig, which should go a long way towards addressing a current source of imbalance between armor and shield tanked boosting ships.
If a ship is allowed to fit multiple Command Bursts, they are welcome to fit multiples of the same type of Burst module or mix and match Burst module types. So if a Claymore pilot for instance wishes to provide two types of Skirmish boosts to its fleet at the same time it will be welcome to fit two Skirmish Command Bursts and load each module with a different ammo. Or it could fit one Skirmish Command Burst modules and one Shield Command Burst module and swap ammo on the fly to provide whatever bonuses are most appropriate to the battlefield situation.
Like existing warfare links, multiple copies of any given Command Burst bonus do not stack on top of each other. The Command Burst system will only apply the bonus from the strongest version of each Command Burst effect that is applied to any given ship. However, Command Burst bonuses do stack on top of bonuses from other sources (such as modules and implants) and this interaction may be subject to diminishing returns (stacking penalties) depending on the attribute being affected.