Anti-subcapital Launcher: launcher capable of using missiles made for shooting subcapital ships. Opposite of the Anti-capital Launcher listed above.
Guided Bomb Launcher: uses guided bombs, which combine the tracking nature of missiles with the damaging area of effect of bombs. Has three ammunition types, one aimed at taking battleships down, another focused on killing frigates, and the last one having a capacitor draining effect
Large / X-Large Energy Neutralizer: works exactly the same way than regular ship Energy Neutralizers. However, this specific module has a much larger amount of neutralized capacitor, capable of threatening capitals and crippling battleships
Small / Medium Energy Neutralizers: same effect as above, but aimed against smaller ships.
Point Defense Batteries: not to be confused with the flak missiles, this weapon generates AoE damage all around the structure, primarily to deal with enemy drones or frigates
Ship Tractor Beam: a variation of the standard tractor beam. However it pulls ships instead of wrecks closer to the structure. The Ship Tractor Beam does not warp scramble its target however, which may cause it to align faster or slower depending on the angle on which it is pulled
Arcing Vorton Projector: structure Doomsday module. Fires a beam of energy on the primary target, which then bounces on the five closest additional targets.
As a side-note, the various missiles shot from the structure launchers will either have high hitpoints or be invulnerable to attack to minimize firewall tactics. This will be decided during playtests. We are also going to increase all capital ship signature radius to at least 10km to account for the structure missiles listed above.
Med-slots
Bumping module: causes all ships around the target to be bumped away at speeds based on their respective masses. Imagine being bumped by several raging Machariels and you will have a good idea on how this module operates
Multi-spectrum ECM: equivalent to ship ECM in almost every way, except its racial strength can be changed through scripts