The Mining Drone I will be receiving a 25% buff to mining yield, to help shrink the gap between T1 and T2 drones to a more reasonable level
The Mining Drone II will remain largely unchanged in November, as it represents the current baseline for drone mining. In a future release after November we will be adding Mining Drone Specialization level 1 to its skill requirements (which will allow it to receive the benefits of that skill) but we’ll be giving some time for interested capsuleers to train the skill before making that change
The rare Harvester Mining Drone will be receiving some buffs to position it as an expensive but useful faction version of the normal mining drones. It will keep very low skill requirements and gain buffs to speed (remaining slower than T1 mining drones, but faster than today), hitpoints and mining yield. We will also be re-introducing a new way of obtaining these drones so that their supply can begin to slowly increase to a sustainable level. They will be very rare drops from a new set of NPCs that will be announced in the near future
We are adding a new set of ‘Augmented’ Mining Drones in the November expansion. Like the existing ‘Augmented’ combat drones, these will be special rogue drone versions of the drones that are both faction and T2. They will be manufactured using blueprints and components looted from rogue drones. They will require the Mining Drone Specialization skill and gain its benefits. The base stats of the ‘Augmented’ Mining Drones will also be very powerful, gaining about 9% more mining yield than T2 mining drones. They’ll also benefit from improved speed and hitpoints
The new ‘Excavator’ Mining Superdrones are the ultimate culmination of drone mining technology. These giant drones (pictured above) are the result of secretive ORE research into rogue drones. They can only be used by Rorqual-class capital industrial ships. By themselves a set of ‘Excavator’ Superdrones make the Rorqual the most powerful mining ship in the game, and when boosted by an active Industrial Core module they each individually gain the yield of an Exhumer. These Superdrones use the drone system (they are not fighters) and function just like normal mining drones. They require the Mining Drone Specialization and gain its benefits
The new Ice Harvester Drones will come in Tech 1, Tech 2, ‘Augmented’, and ‘Excavator’ versions and follow a similar progression as the normal mining drones. They receive cycle time bonuses rather than yield since ice comes in such large blocks. The Tech 1, Tech 2, and ‘Augmented’ versions of these drones have volumes of 50 m3 and use 50 mbits of bandwidth. To avoid any major danger to the ice mining market, these drones rely heavily on the bonuses provided by mining foreman ships to be competitive (but they can be used by any ship that has 50mbits of bandwidth available)