(1) Anytime
You may terminate the EULA with regard to any or all of your Accounts at any time, upon notice to CCP via electronic mail. You will not receive a refund of any fees in the event of such termination.
(2) For a Change in the Subscription Fee or Payment Terms
If a change in the fees or payment terms is unacceptable to you, you may as your sole and exclusive remedy,as your sole and exclusive remedy, terminate the EULA and close all of your Accounts by notifying CCP via electronic mail within thirty (30) days after the later of (a) the date that CCP has posted the change on its website; or (b) the date the change has impacted your Account (e.g., your credit card has been charged). Your notice must state: (i) that you do not agree to the change, specifically describing the change, and that you wish to terminate the EULA and close your Accounts; (ii) your player name and (iii) your login name. You may receive a refund of any prepaid subscription fees, prorated as of the effective date of your termination, by sending CCP a request via electronic mail within thirty (30) days of your termination notice. If you continue to access the System or use EVE more than thirty (30) days after the later to occur of (a) or (b) above, without following the termination procedure set forth above, you shall be deemed to have accepted the change and waive your rights to terminate under this section.
(3) For a Change in the EULA
If an amendment alters a material term of the EULA that is unacceptable to you, you may, as your sole and exclusive remedy, terminate the EULA and close your Accounts by: (a) clicking the "DECLINE" button when you are prompted to review and agree to the amended EULA; or (b) notifying CCP via electronic mail within thirty (30) days after the amended EULA was communicated to you, provided that you have not clicked the "ACCEPT" button, accessed the System or played the Game during that period. Your notice must state: (i) that you do not agree to the amended EULA, specifically describing the amendment(s) with which you disagree, and request CCP to close all of your Accounts; (ii) your player name and (iii) your login name. You may receive a refund of any prepaid subscription fees, prorated as of the effective date of your termination, by sending CCP a request via electronic mail within thirty (30) days of your termination notice. If you click "ACCEPT" or otherwise continue to access the System or play the Game, you shall be deemed to have accepted the amended EULA and waive your rights to terminate under this section.