B. Selling Items and Objects
You may not transfer, sell or auction, or buy or accept any offer to transfer, sell or auction (or offer to do any of the foregoing), any content appearing within the Game environment, including without limitation characters, character attributes, items, currency, and objects, other than via a permitted Character Transfer as described in section 3 above. You may not encourage or induce any other person to participate in such a prohibited transaction. You may not use, transfer or assign any game assets for games of chance operated by third parties.You may not use, transfer or assign any game assets for games of chance operated by third parties. The buying, selling or auctioning (or any attempt at doing so) of characters, character attributes, items, currency, or objects, whether through online auctions, newsgroups, postings on message boards or any other means is prohibited by the EULA and a violation of CCP's proprietary rights in the Game.
In short, this addition to the EVE Online EULA means that as of the launch of EVE Online: Ascension, players will be prohibited from using in game assets and currency, as well as the EVE IP, to take part in or promote gambling services or other games of chance that are operated by third parties.
With this in mind, as of this announcement we have taken action against two organizations that are currently offering third party services based around gambling and games of chance:
The third party service IWANTISK has been shut down in game, and all ISK and assets have been confiscated after extensive and exhaustive investigation has brought forward compelling evidence of large-scale Real Money Trading. Permanent account suspensions have been issued against those involved.
The third party service EVE Casino has been shut down in game, and all ISK and assets have been confiscated after multiple and sustained breaches of our Developer License Agreement. Permanent account suspensions have been issued against those involved.
Please note: CCP will not be issuing reimbursements based on outstanding ISK or asset balances with either of the above mentioned organizations that have been subject to account action and/or ISK and asset confiscation.
As of the launch of EVE Online: Ascension, the hosting of, and participation in any form of third party gambling service that utilizes in game assets, currency, or the EVE IP will be strictly prohibited.
In the run-up to November 8th, all services that offer any form of third party gambling of this nature are required to wind down their operations. During the time from this announcement until the release of EVE Online: Ascension, our security team will be closely monitoring all these in game entities to ensure that no illicit behavior occurs, and that any movement of in game assets and currency remains in line with our current EULA and Terms of Service.
Please note: Given that the Alliance Tournament is currently ongoing, we are aware that some players may have outstanding wagers on alliances who are competing with other third party services who have not been subject to account action and/or ISK and asset confiscation. These third party services are free to finalize these wagers over the course of the weekend given that they have not broken our rules, but must wind down operations in an orderly fashion before 11:00 UTC on Tuesday November 8th, 2016.
If there are any questions regarding this change, please feel free to pose them in the comments thread linked at the header of this Dev Blog.
Below is a redlined copy of the new End User License Agreement, which will replace the current agreement as of the launch of EVE Online: Ascension.
EVE Online - End User License Agreement
ESRB Notice: Game Experience May Change During Online Play
Thank you for your interest in EVE, interactive online game ("EVE" or the "Game"). EVE is offered by CCP hf. ("CCP"), a company based in Reykjavik, Iceland dedicated to the creation of next generation games. EVE is a multiplayer role playing game that allows the simultaneous participation of players around the world, interacting in the same game environment. You may play EVE using CCP's proprietary software (the "Software").  Using the Software allows you to log into CCP’s client system (the “System”) and interact within the game environment created by CCP. To play EVE, CCP requires that you review and agree to the following terms and conditions of this End User License Agreement (“EULA”).
This EULA describes the terms and conditions under which you may (i) use the Software; (ii) subscribe to, access and use EVE Online, and (iii) access the System CCP may amend this EULA from time to time by posting an amended version at //community.eveonline.com/support/policies/eve-eula-en/. If you accept this EULA, the then-current version of this EULA shall apply each time you access the System or play EVE.
By clicking the "ACCEPT" button below (or if you bypass or otherwise disable the "ACCEPT" button, and still access or otherwise use the Software, the System or the Game), you accept the terms and conditions in the EULA. If you do not accept the terms and conditions in the EULA, you must click the "DECLINE" button, discontinue use of the Software and not access the System or use EVE Online. If you are the original purchaser of a boxed version of the Software on CD-ROM, you should contact the retailer for a refund. CCP does not manufacture or distribute the box version of the Game and is not responsible for refunding any fees relating thereto.