When a structure triggers asset safety (usually by blowing up) while a manufacturing or science job is in progress, any BPOs involved in the job will be sent to asset safety. The other materials that were a part of the job (including BPCs), as well as any completed but undelivered job outputs, will have a chance to drop into the structure wreck just like structure modules. Any delivered job outputs will be in the normal hangar locations and will enter asset safety as usual.
ONWARD AND UPWARD: UPDATE ON THE PLAYER STRUCTURE TRANSITION PLAN
As we continue to add more Upwell structures and more functionality to existing structures we are receiving understandable questions about the long term plan for phasing out legacy starbases and outposts.
We are still committed to replacing starbases and outposts with more effective and user-friendly Upwell structures over the long term, but we are not rushing this transition. We want to ensure that the new structures replace all the important functionality from older structures and that we can fully polish the user experience of these structures before phasing out any existing legacy structures.
We are not removing any legacy structures in Ascension, nor are we removing any bonuses from these legacy structures. Your starbases and outposts will still have the same industry bonuses and capabilities for the medium-term. We know that once we complete the task of polishing these new structures and creating new tools for players to build their empires, the community will continue the transition to the new structures on their own. This process will be a slow and careful one because we want to make sure we get it right.
We are able to announce one small but significant step forward that we have planned for the near future in this transition plan:
Our current plan is that as of our December release (the first regular monthly release after the expansion) it will no longer be possible to deploy new outposts or outpost upgrades.
Existing outposts will continue to work perfectly and will not have any of their bonuses removed at this time. We believe that we have now come far enough in the new structure plan to be able to phase out the new outpost deployment process as a first step towards the eventual transition to Upwell structures. Anyone who wishes to deploy an outpost or outpost upgrade should make sure to do so before December.
It's possible that this outpost plan could change depending on how the initial Engineering Complex release works out, but if it does change we’ll keep you informed.
We’ll continue keeping you all up to date as we get closer to being ready for more transition steps over the long term.
THE SPREADSHEETS YOU’VE ALL BEEN WAITING FOR! (LOTS OF NUMBERS)
These spreadsheets are now also available on our google drive at this link.
MORE SAND IN THE SANDBOX
We know that starting in with the release of EVE Online: Ascension this November, corporations, alliances and coalitions from across New Eden will put these structures to amazing use. These new Engineering Complexes can serve them well as a fundamental part of their industrial operations, alongside the administrative and logistical functions that citadels already provide.
We’d love to hear your feedback on Engineering Complexes, so feel free to discuss what’s coming in the comments thread for this Dev Blog. We’ll be reading all the comments there and making adjustments thanks to your insights.
Thanks and happy building!
Your Friendly Neighborhood Team Five 0