Bonuses from both of the old Tengu ECM subsystems have been combined into one subsystem in the core slot that provides bonuses to both ECM strength and range
The Proteus Drone Synthesis subsystem has been upgraded to include bonuses to drone damage, hitpoints, velocity and tracking speed
The Loki defensive subsystems now provide their full-strength bonuses to both shield and armor tanking, providing unprecedented flexibility
The old Loki Hardpoint Efficiency subsystem has been replaced with a truly dedicated missile subsystem in the offensive slot, providing full support for missile-focused Minmatar pilots
Several changes have been made to the industrial requirements for building Strategic Cruisers. All the details can be found here in the forum thread.
T3 CRUISER HASN’T ALWAYS BEEN THIS GLAM
One of the impacts of the techincal art changes that are accompanying this revamp is the introduction of the first ever ship skins for Strategic Cruisers. To celebrate this new capability we have nine Strategic Cruiser skins planned for release over the next few weeks: four to be sold in the New Eden Store and five rewarded from ingame activity.
Starting on Tuesday, one new skin for each of the Strategic Cruisers will become available as part of the randomized “Exoplanet Hunter” skin rewards from Project Discovery: Exoplanets.
Then in the coming weeks we will see the launch of the “Welcome to the Agency” event, which counts among its rewards a special Tengu Sukuuvesta skin.
In the coming weeks we will also make another set of Strategic Cruiser skins available in the New Eden Store.
PATCH DAY COMETH
With the arrival of such a massive Strategic Cruiser revamp comes a very significant patch-day transition process.
A lot will be changing on patch day and we want to reiterate that we highly encourage all players who will be flying T3 Cruisers at the time of downtime on July 11th get themselves into a safe location such as a friendly starbase or docked within a station/structure before the downtime begins.
All characters that have the Electronic Subsystem Technology, Amarr Electronic Systems, Gallente Electronic Systems, Caldari Electronic Systems, and/or Minmatar Electronic Systems skills trained will receive the skillpoints from these skills as unallocated skillpoints as well as isk reimbursement for the NPC cost of the skillbooks.
Any skills or datacores associated with Engineering Subsystems have been renamed to refer to “Core Subsystems”
Existing subsystems that are not fit to a Strategic Cruiser will be directly transformed into their closest functional equivalent found in the same subsystem slot under the new system.
Strategic Cruisers with subsystems fit to them will have their subsystems converted into new ones directly, and will receive one extra subsystem placed in their cargo hold (to ensure that players have the same number of subsystems before and after the patch).
Thanks for joining us today for this dev blog! We are excited to get these newly rebalanced Strategic Cruisers into all your hands with the July release. Thanks again to all the players who have provided feedback on these ships over the years and a special thanks to the focus group members.