The structure combat overhaul will also include a major rework to structure combat modules. The fitting gameplay options and choices available to structure owners has been lacking compared to ship fitting gameplay and we intend to start closing the gap with the Upwell 2.0 release.
The largest change to modules in this release will be the addition of new T2 Standup modules. These will provide upgraded functionality to all the major combat modules for Upwell structures and introduce numerous new fitting options. Entirely new module categories will also be brought to Upwell structures, including capacitor power relays, capacitor batteries, armor reinforcers.
To go along with these new fitting options, we will also be adjusting the balance around structure fitting stats and module stats to bring more interesting gameplay to structure fitting. Expect CPU and Powergrid decisions to matter much more after this release, especially if you wish to take advantage of the new T2 modules. The fitting requirements of service modules have been reduced significantly, and structure Powergrid and CPU pools have been reduced to compensate.
Structure weapons are also receiving a balance pass, with anti-capital damage generally reducing and anti-subcapital damage generally increasing. The Standup Heavy Guided Bombs (formerly known as Standup AM Guided Bombs) will also be receiving a significant increase to their explosion radius to better differentiate them from the Standup Light Guided Bombs (formerly known as Standup AS Guided Bombs). All of the Standup missiles and launchers are also being renamed to more clearly show their roles and remove their over-reliance on acronym gobbledygook.
Structure tackle modules will also be receiving major updates with this release. These powerful modules can often become oppressive with their ability to keep single targets tackled and webbed indefinitely. It is especially important for us to address these modules now since the addition of 24/7 shield vulnerability means structures will be able to activate their tackle modules at all times. To solve these issues, we plan to add a reactivation delay to the Standup Focused Warp Disruptor (formerly known as the Standup Warp Scrambler) and Standup Stasis Webifier modules that prevents them from being cycled constantly without breaks. The current plan is for them to activate for 30 seconds, and then need to wait one minute before activating again. The Standup Focused Warp Disruptor will also be changed to become scriptable, with a longer-range disruptor mode and a shorter-range scrambler mode accessible through a script. Combined with these changes they would also be limited to a maximum of one copy each fitted to a structure. The intent would be for these modules to be used strategically to grab tackle long enough for an allied ship to get their own point, or in conjunction with the new AoE webs and bubbles.
After some productive discussions with the CSM at our recent summit meeting, we will also be increasing the locking range of Upwell structures significantly to better enable them to engage with targets at extreme ranges. Base lock range of Upwell Structures is planned to increase to 350k, 380km, and 400km for medium, large and XL structures respectively. Additionally all Upwell Structure will gain the ability to increase target range further to a cap of 490km through the existing targeting speed rigs and modules which will be expanded to also provide targeting range bonuses in addition to their current benefits.
PILLAR #4: MOON MINING IN W-SPACE AND HIGHSEC
The final major pillar of the Upwell Structures 2.0 release is the single most requested structure addition from the community over the past several months: moon mining gameplay in wormhole space and highsec.
Starting on February 13th capsuleers will be able to anchor refinery structures at the moons in 0.5 security highsec systems and in any w-space systems that contain moons. The mechanics of scanning, extracting, fracturing, and mining in these systems will be exactly the same as it is for existing moon mining in lowsec and nullsec systems.
These moons will contain a randomized selection of upgraded standard mineral ore variants, as well as some of the most common varieties of moongoo ores in lower quantities than those available in lowsec and nullsec.
OTHER UPWELL 2.0 CHANGES