When a pilot invites you to fleet, the message you get will include a link to that character's info.
When the fleet boss quits, a fleet role will now be passed on to the highest-ranking member in the fleet that is at the top of the list in the UI, so people can make sure they fill those spots by people who are available.
Heavily relaxed the squad and wing size restrictions to 256 members per squad, 25 squads per wing and 25 wings per fleet. Note: Fleets are still restricted to the same max size.
Fleet members in Structures now show as docked in the 'Fleet Composition' window.
Added shortcuts for broadcasting Warp/Align/Jump To.
Added the ability to set a max size for a fleet.
A fleet can now be created with a saved setup.
The 'Watchlist' now shows ship icons.
Reduced the delay in the 'Fleet Composition' window from 60 to 20 seconds.
A fleet can now be created with a saved setup.
Double clicking a member in the 'Watchlist' no longer opens the show info window for the pilot.
Re-targeting an already locked watchlist member will now select them.
The ship belonging to the member in your 'Watchlist' will show as highlighted if you mouse over the them, making it easier to find people on the field.
The creator of a fleet is now put in the FC position, instead of the SC position.
The 'Fleet' window no longer closes automatically when you leave a fleet.
The health bar of an individual fighter in a squadron is now be colored based on the health of the fighter
Added cycle time and yield to the tooltip for fitted mining and ice harvesting drones.
Added a 'Launch Drones' shortcut: By default this acts like right clicking on 'Drones in Bay' and selecting 'Launch Drones', but you can now also select a favorite drone group to be the default target for this shortcut (Saved per hull type).
Expanded the 'Engage Drones' shortcut to also give the 'Mine Repeatedly' command to any mining drones.
Added a number of assignable shortcuts for various fighter actions (they are unassigned by default but can be set up in the Esc menu)
Relaxed the throttling on giving orders to Fighter Squadrons. This should result in less occurrences of busy squadrons during high APM usage.
A fighter squadron launched from a structure will now undock from one of the structure's frigate undock points
The ship name in 'Fitting management' windows is now a link to the info for the ship type.
It is now possible to suppress the confirmation pop up windows for offlining weapons, offlining modules, which are part of a group, and unfitting modules, which are part of a group.
Obsolete modules in a fit are now displayed red with a warning tooltip in the fit's window
Added an icon with a tooltip to the top left of fitting simulation that lists any missing skills for the fit (Which includes copy to clipboard and buy all buttons).
Boosters/Drugs can now be saved in ship fittings.
Added a 'Current Ship' filter to the Hulls & Fits panel.
Added the 'Buy all' option to the right click of the fitting entries in the fitting browser.
The 'Item type' field in 'Wallet>Transactions’ is now wider and has a 'Clear' button.
The 'Member' field in 'Corporation Wallet >Transaction' now has a 'Clear' button.
A text filter was added to the 'LP store'.
Alliances are now autolinkable in chat like Corporations, Solarsystems, etc.
The 'Message' field when adding contacts is now disabled unless you have the 'Send notification' checkbox checked.
Items can now be dragged into the 'Market' search field, as well as to the filter in 'Inventory' windows.
Added a character limit counter to the edit window for the 'Welcome Mail' for corporations.
It is now possible to drag and drop character names into the search boxes for 'Deliver Items To', 'Add Members' to access access list and 'Find Invitees' for calendar events.
Structures now have a bio/description section where owners can list pertinent information about their structure.
Text fields with character limits now correctly take html tags into account.
Added the quantity of remaining ammo for the currently loaded type to the right click menu.
The right-click menu option to repair a module shows now the needed quantity of Nanite Repair Paste.
Added a duration countdown to the tooltips of modules with very long durations (Siege, Doomsdays, Cynos).
Module repair progress is now saved properly when jumping through a gate while a module is still repairing.
Added an option to reload the ship and fighter HUD to the 'Reset Settings' tab of the ESC window.
Number of days in corp was been added in the 'Employment history' tab.
Custom Offices now have proper right click options.
It’s now possible to copy/paste blueprint info from the 'Industry' window.
The 'Days to Complete' box when creating 'Courier contracts' is now a bit wider.
The ‘Selected Item’ info on Stargates now includes a color coded security status of the destination system.
Pilot and ship images in the 'Selected Item' window are now draggable and can be dragged and dropped to chat.
Casting a vote in a corporate vote no longer collapses all votes in the window.
To reduce notification spam, you no longer receive a notification when a bounty is claimed, which you placed more than 6 months ago.
When jumping to a jump clone would cause the deletion of an existing clone in the pilot's current station, the pilot is now given an detailed list of that clone‘s implants to avoid them accidentally being lost.
When unfitting a clone bay service module, a new popup message will inform you about how many jump clones would be destroyed by that action
Added a confirmation pop up window for closing the mail compose window to avoid losing a lot of text accidentally.
The 'Unplug Implant' confirmation window now includes the name of the implant you are unplugging.
Systems in the Constellation show info window are now sorted alphabetically.
Added Estimated Price column to 'Inventory' windows
Added an option to the 'Inventory' window to allow sorting by Estimated price (right click option in icon view, column sorting in other views).
If an alliance or corporation has more than 100 finished war, the 'War history' tab of their Show info windows, the wars are divided into years.
Added packaged volume information to the price tooltip in the 'Multibuy' window.
Added a volume column to the results given by a 'Survey scanner'.
'Offer ISK' option now defaults to 100isk instead of your total wallet balance.
It‘s now possible to copy the 'Fitting and Content' section of Kill Reports.
Added a 'Buy missing material' option to Industry window.
Changed the output for the 'Copy Material Information' in the 'Industry' window to make it compatible with the 'Multibuy' import, as well as, third party applications. The information will now be copied in this order: 'ItemName', 'RequiredAmount', 'AmountAvailable', 'Est. Unit price', 'typeID' (used to be 'typeID', 'ItemName', 'AvailableAmount', 'RequiredAmount', 'Est. Unit price')
Improved the 'Multibuy' window by adding an 'Export from Multibuy' option and an 'Add order to Quickbar' option.
Fixed an issue that would cause the copy contract option to consider your active ship as a viable item to be contracted.
Ship groups are now listed alphabetically in the ship restrictions window for mission sites.
It is now possible to directly create bookmark tokens from corporation bookmarks, without having to first copy the corporation bookmark to a personal bookmark.
Capacitor/Shield fully recharge upon docking/undocking from Structures,
Increased the maximum allowed duration of contracts to 4 weeks.
That's all for now!
If you'd like to chat more about this blog, here's a link to the comments thread on the Official Forums!
Fly safe o7
CCP karkur