Aside from TTV, there are also two other types of transits where Project Discovery is expected to outperform algorithmic analysis.
Firstly, we have transits in systems with strong stellar activity, where the algorithms can’t get a clean fold, even if the transit can be seen clearly with the naked eye.
Secondly, there are circumbinary planets, which are planets orbiting binary stars. Frequency analysis-based algorithms have trouble with these because the relative position of the stars and the planet can be different each time the planet transits.
UI4
Tweaking Tools and the Dataset
Since the release of the new Project Discovery, we have made several changes. Firstly, we have removed all samples where the signal-to-noise ratio is too low, since they aren’t fair and don’t significantly contribute to the scientific effort.
We noted a large number of players having trouble with marking the transits accurately for high frequency transits. This is caused by the fact that a small error in period adds up cumulatively for each marker, causing them to eventually fall outside the allowed margin of error. We attributed this to problems with reading whether the transits are perfectly aligned in the folded mode.
To combat this issue, we added a magnifying glass on the minimap. This allows players who often encounter this issue to check whether each individual marker falls within a transit by looking at a zoomed in version of the full unfolded graph at any time during the folding process.
We have also, at the suggestion of our players, added a feature that allows players to examine multiples of the selected period, which is especially useful for the situation when multiple transits become visible during the folding phase aside from the one being folded.
When building this project, we became aware that the solutions for eclipsing binaries were flawed due to the inclusion of only the primary eclipse and not the secondary one. As such, we removed them from the dataset until their solutions could be adjusted. However, after releasing the feature we became aware of a separate type of binary that had the same problem, causing players to encounter samples where half the transits were correctly part of the solution and half of them were not. These samples have been removed from the data set.