Creative space friends,

We here at CCP have long sought out player created material to use in our streaming efforts and in social media because, in so many ways, it’s the best material. I ask you, who sleeps without hearing the roars of Metal Camel from the Alliance tournament broadcast?! We’ve had an open mailbox (share@eveonline.com) for anything your fertile minds cook up or come across – things that we have shared on our social media channels through the years.

These submissions and tips have been invaluable to us since we only have so many sets of eyes (CCP Manifest is the only one with more than two) to scour the EVE universe and its fringes. These submissions have allowed us to act as a bullhorn, as a magnifying glass, and as a giant highlighter for all the wonderful things that you do. They have connected you with each other, given the creators the recognition they deserve, and inspired future content producers.

Now that we have even more means of communicating your genius, like the almost-monthly EVE Online show ‘o7’, we want to refresh this open invitation and ask for more of your submissions – big and small. What we are looking for is something that you think is worth highlighting. Anything from a cool screenshot, news of an important event, links to amazing battle reports, a shout-out to someone you think has done something admirable, a poem about CCP Guard’s classic-yet-youthful hairstyle, pvp video, artwork, “EVE is Real” photo, tips about a great player-run project or anything else that in your mind deserves praise and attention.



Please send what you have to share@eveonline.com using a descriptive title, and note that some submissions may be end up being used for our social channels while some may get a mention on the global internet spaceship television or elsewhere, the important thing is to make sure our D-Scans pick up everything (except recons of course heh). But then we also want to ask for more…

TV Ads for o7: The EVE Online show - and other CCP streams
From those willing to put in the extra work, we want to get new advertisements to premiere LIVE on the internet’s favorite spaceship themed talk show, and we want to loosen up the premise a little bit. You can advertise your corporation or alliance for pure bragging rights or for recruitment purposes, a project you are running, your CSM candidacy or you can advertise an event that is about to take place. We don’t want to limit you and tell you what is worth highlighting or how to do it, as long as you follow these simple rules:

General Rules
Advert cannot include copyrighted music or visuals unless those you have a license to use and properly credit the owner. Any failure to have the appropriate license or properly credit the owner will be entirely your liability.
Content must be respectable and suitable for broadcast (no attack ads, no illegal or offensive content).
Adverts must be in English.
The quality of the advert must reflect positively on EVE itself, we may give comments and advice on improving the quality of the video until we can accept it.
The advert must be in some way relevant to the EVE universe
CCP reserves to right to reject content at its own discretion.
Upon submission, you grant CCP an irrevocable, perpetual, worldwide, assignable, royalty-free license and right to use the video, edit the video, incorporate the video into other CCP properties or presentations, and to display all or any portion of the video for public broadcast, performance, marketing, or promotion, anywhere worldwide, as CCP may determine.
Technical Rules
1920x1080 resolution with a 1:1 pixel aspect ratio.
Either 30 or 29,970 frames per second, adverts will not be accepted at any other frame rate.
Time length can span 15 – 30 seconds, no more, no less.
If you are using Royalty Free / Creative Commons Music then credit the author somewhere in the end plate of your video. An end plate is where you typically put your Logo, Url and such
Video codec should be Mp4 or MOV file with H.264 as a compressor at 15 to 20Mbps.
Label your video file descriptively and clearly.


Advertisement submissions should be sent to evetv@ccpgames.com with the subject “o7 advertisement”. If you have questions you need to ask before diving into production, you can also EVE mail me (CCP Guard) directly.

In the submission e-mail please tell us a little bit about what you’ve created. If the advertisement is regarding something time sensitive, be sure to tell us about that too so we can more likely schedule it properly.

We look forward to seeing what you come up with!

Your own,

- G