Voting for CSM 12 opens on March 6, but a lot will happen between then and now. As of this moment we´ve started accepting applications for being on the CSM 12 ballot. The application period lasts two weeks and closes on February 17. Any EVE Online player who meets the requirements can apply.

CSM Candidate Requirements

To apply, your account must be older than 60 days at the time that candidacy applications close (that is, created no later than 2016-12-26)
Both Alpha and Omega accounts are eligible to run
You must have a history of honoring the EULA and the Terms of Service. We will screen every applicant thoroughly and EULA/TOS violations on your record can result in a rejected application.
Your account must have updated and correct information at the time of your application. This includes; your real life name, correct date of birth and the same email you use to submit your application. To view and edit this information go to the account management system.
Candidates must be a minimum of 18 years of age. If the legal adult age in your home country (the age at which you have the legal capacity to enter into a contract) is higher than 18, that number applies instead.
As an applicant, you must consent to providing your personal details to CCP, including your real name and a copy of your passport or internationally accepted identification. A CSM candidate can share any real-life information about themselves with the player base at their own discretion but it is not required at any stage in their application or CSM term other than sharing their country of residence on their candidate information page. Further personal information is only visible to CCP staff and will not be revealed by CCP.
To apply you must own a valid passport or verifiably be in the process of successfully applying for one at the time of your application. CSM members are expected to have the option of travelling to summits in Iceland. A passport is still required by applicants living in the EEA, as airlines may demand possession of a passport as a condition of carriage.
If you control a character that is well known in the EVE community, CCP may require you to run under that identity and not one of an alt or a lesser known character.
Applicants who meet these requirements can apply using the application form on our website.

Applicants, please read these instructions carefully

Applications cannot be edited after you submit them so make sure your information is correct.
The applicant must provide a copy of a valid, internationally recognized identity document to CCP (passport preferred, driver’s license generally accepted). This is required to confirm the identity of the candidate and to prove the ability to sign a Non-Disclosure Agreement. A copy must be of a high quality and should be sent to csm-contact@ccpgames.com immediately after the application has been submitted through our website. Include your running Character’s name in the subject line. CCP will reply once they have received your documents to confirm delivery.
If you fail to submit a copy of your ID, your application will be rejected.
Once your application has been submitted, you are encouraged to create a campaign thread in this forum section.
Replacement of the White Paper and updated information about the CSM

The White Paper was the original document drafted to explain the purpose and function of the CSM but also the aspirations and reason for setting up the democratically elected institution. It served its purpose well through the years and went through a couple of rewrites, but the CSM has moved on and a lot of the text in the document is now unnecessary or outdated. It remains as a historical document and reference. We’ve worked with the current CSM to outline the actual, current function of the CSM so that both voters and potential candidates have a clear and up-to-date idea of what the CSM is.We’ve updated the CSM website with this new text and you can now find this information on the website itself instead of in a separately hosted document.

Change in the number of CSM members.

The size of the CSM has not been static and has changed several times. The current number of delegates is 14. When that number was first implemented, half the council consisted of alternates.  Another change saw all 14 become full members with CCP committing to flying 7 members to attend on-site summits. During the last two summits we’ve invited all members to attend in person as a temporary measure to strengthen the CSM.
We’ve now discussed future arrangements both internally, and with CSM 11, and we’ve decided to reduce the number of members to 10, all of which will be invited to summits.

The CSM 11 second summit

We just came out of a great summit with the current CSM. To give the citizens of EVE insight into the CSM process we ran a live stream with the council last Sunday prior to the summit and then we did live recaps each day on Facebook with different members each time.
Sunday pre-summit live stream
Day 1 recap
Day 2 recap
Day 3 recap
Day 4 recap

That‘s it for now. We look forward to receiving and reviewing applications for CSM 12 and to opening the voting page on March 6. February and March will no doubt be marked by extensive campaigning and for those of you who’ve never been through a CSM campaign period before, it should prove exciting, informative and entertaining. Please use the time to study the candidates and their platforms and think about what you want for EVE’s future. Your vote counts.

On behalf of CCP,
CCP Guard and CCP Logibro
CSM Coordinators