85	english	 	 MINING DRONES REVISITED	Mining drones have been a part of New Eden since the earliest days of EVE Online, but were generally eclipsed when Mining Barges and later Exhumers were added, increasing the mining yield baseline. The mining foreman ships will be receiving significant bonuses that make mining drones excellent options on those ships, and this has provided us an opportunity to flesh out the line of mining drones and mining drone skills.	In the November expansion we will be adding several new mining drones (including the first ever ice mining drones) and some new mining drone skills to go with them.	Let’s start with the new skills! We’re adding three new Mining Drone skills in November, which both enable the new line ice harvesting drones and allow players to more meaningfully specialize in mining drone gameplay.	Mining Drone Specialization: 2% bonus to the mining yield and max velocity of drones requiring Mining Drone Specialization per level.	This skill enables greater specialization in drone mining for pilots who wish to become the best mining drone operators possible.    	Mining Drone Specialization is a tier 5 skill.	Mining Drone Specialization requires Mining Drone Operation level 5 in order to start training.	In the November expansion, only two new drone types (‘Augmented’ Mining Drones and ‘Excavator’ Mining Drones) will require and gain benefits from Mining Drone Specialization. At a later point after players have had ample time to train it, we plan to eventually add Mining Drone Specialization level 1 to the skill requirements of the Mining Drone II which will extend the benefits of this skill to those drones.	Ice Harvester Drone Operation: 5% reduction in ice harvester drone cycle time per level.	This will be the first tier skill for the new ice harvester drones that are being introduced in the November expansion.	Ice Harvester Drone Operation is a tier 2 skill.	Since it reduces cycle time instead of increasing yield this skill is a bit more powerful than Mining Drone Operation.	Ice Harvester Drone Specialization: 2% reduction in cycle time and bonus to max velocity of drones requiring Ice Harvester Drone Specialization per level.	This is the second tier specialization skill for the new ice harvester drones.	Ice Harvester Drone Specialization is a rank 5 skill.	From day one all advanced ice harvester drones (T2, Augmented, and Excavator) will require Ice Harvester Drone Specialization and therefore gain its benefits.	To go along with these new skills, we are also fleshing out the lineup of mining drones themselves!	(Click image for a larger, animated version)	The Mining Drone I will be receiving a 25% buff to mining yield, to help shrink the gap between T1 and T2 drones to a more reasonable level	The Mining Drone II will remain largely unchanged in November, as it represents the current baseline for drone mining. In a future release after November we will be adding Mining Drone Specialization level 1 to its skill requirements (which will allow it to receive the benefits of that skill) but we’ll be giving some time for interested capsuleers to train the skill before making that change	The rare Harvester Mining Drone will be receiving some buffs to position it as an expensive but useful faction version of the normal mining drones. It will keep very low skill requirements and gain buffs to speed (remaining slower than T1 mining drones, but faster than today), hitpoints and mining yield. We will also be re-introducing a new way of obtaining these drones so that their supply can begin to slowly increase to a sustainable level. They will be very rare drops from a new set of NPCs that will be announced in the near future	We are adding a new set of ‘Augmented’ Mining Drones in the November expansion. Like the existing ‘Augmented’ combat drones, these will be special rogue drone versions of the drones that are both faction and T2. They will be manufactured using blueprints and components looted from rogue drones. They will require the Mining Drone Specialization skill and gain its benefits. The base stats of the ‘Augmented’ Mining Drones will also be very powerful, gaining about 9% more mining yield than T2 mining drones. They’ll also benefit from improved speed and hitpoints	The new ‘Excavator’ Mining Superdrones are the ultimate culmination of drone mining technology. These giant drones (pictured above) are the result of secretive ORE research into rogue drones. They can only be used by Rorqual-class capital industrial ships. By themselves a set of ‘Excavator’ Superdrones make the Rorqual the most powerful mining ship in the game, and when boosted by an active Industrial Core module they each individually gain the yield of an Exhumer. These Superdrones use the drone system (they are not fighters) and function just like normal mining drones. They require the Mining Drone Specialization and gain its benefits	The new Ice Harvester Drones will come in Tech 1, Tech 2, ‘Augmented’, and ‘Excavator’ versions and follow a similar progression as the normal mining drones. They receive cycle time bonuses rather than yield since ice comes in such large blocks. The Tech 1, Tech 2, and ‘Augmented’ versions of these drones have volumes of 50 m3 and use 50 mbits of bandwidth. To avoid any major danger to the ice mining market, these drones rely heavily on the bonuses provided by mining foreman ships to be competitive (but they can be used by any ship that has 50mbits of bandwidth available)	To support the new Ice Harvesting drones, we are adding functionality to the whole line of Drone Mining Augmentor rigs. They will now also reduce Ice Harvesting Drone cycle time by 10% (15% for the T2 rigs).	It’s worth noting that we are not adding any Mining Foreman Bursts that impact mining drones at this time. The drone mining bonuses on the mining foreman ships are extremely strong and we believe that extending the impact of the Mining Foreman Bursts would potentially take them too far.	Now that we’re covered the new Mining Foreman Burst and Mining Drone changes, let’s get to the details of the ships that will be using them!
