90	english	 	 WHAT IS ESI TO US?	Over the last few months, we've been using and developing the ESI framework to build a new API from the ground up. The ESI API is a RESTful, SSO authenticated, documentation first, buzzword compliant, horizontally scalable, read/write API. It's currently backing the EVE Mobile app and running on a Kubernetes cluster in Google Cloud (Kubernetes is awesome btw). What the devil does that all mean?	RESTful and SSO authenticated means that you interact with it largely the same way you do with CREST. You'll use HTTPS requests with bearer authorisation tokens if the endpoint requires auth. If you've ever done CREST development this will be like sitting down in a comfortable armchair for you.	Documentation first means that internally, we use the Swagger spec to generate our APIs. Step one of creating or updating an endpoint is creating or updating the spec, that defines all our internal data structures for processing incoming requests to that endpoint, and that means the documentation is always up to date because it's an integral part of coding an endpoint, guaranteed. Don't look now, but we might have solved this documentation gremlin. Additionally, the Swagger spec allows the third party community to use code generators to create native code interfaces for the ESI API in their language of choice. Large amounts of engineering time that have been spent laboriously hand-constructing interfaces for CREST and the XML API can now be freed from this boilerplate work. (We're replacing you with robots, sorry.)	Buzzword compliant means we're using industry standard tooling. The custom glue holding this ship together is as minimal as possible, and we swap out the custom stuff for off-the-shelf open source technology when solutions become available. No EVE API has ever been this maintainable or scalable, and this provides new capabilities we've never had before. Minor patches can go from a developers computer to live production in minutes, and if need be can be rolled back just as fast with zero downtime in either direction.	Horizontal scalability is a neat capability we get from Kubernetes. Because all ESI code that doesn't specifically need to be running inside Tranquility is both stateless and running in Google Cloud, we can manage load by spinning up new ESI containers on a per endpoint basis as needed, and shut them down again when they are no longer needed.	Read/write, of course, means we're planning on making writeable API endpoints just like CREST, including some of the ones that have been problematic until now, like sending mail. Basically, it's like CREST, but better.
