73	english	 	 6.B. Selling Items and Objects	“You may not transfer, sell or auction, or buy or accept any offer to transfer, sell or auction (or offer to do any of the foregoing), any content appearing within the Game environment, including without limitation characters, character attributes, items, currency, and objects, other than via a permitted Character Transfer as described in section 3 above. You may not encourage or induce any other person to participate in such a prohibited transaction. The buying, selling or auctioning (or any attempt at doing so) of characters, character attributes, items, currency, or objects, whether through online auctions, newsgroups, postings on message boards or any other means is prohibited by the EULA and a violation of CCP's proprietary rights in the Game.”	Since the collapse of the EVE Gate, humans in New Eden have longed for never-ending piles of ISK. CCP recognizes this demand, and provides PLEX – as a completely legal option for turning your real life cash into precious space bucks. 	We differentiate between those who sell ISK and those who purchase ISK through illegitimate methods, even if both are in violation of the same EULA clause above. This is because those who buy ISK are typically players. We like those.  	ISK buyers are also not in violation of the next EULA clause we’d like to highlight:	2. A. Establishing a New Account	“<…Accounts may not be used for business purposes. Access to the System and playing EVE is intended for your personal entertainment, enjoyment and recreation, and not for corporate, business, commercial or income-seeking activities. Business entities and anyone who is acting for or on behalf of a business or for business purposes may not establish an Account, access the System or play EVE.  Accessing the System or using the Game for commercial, business or income-seeking purposes is strictly prohibited.”	We cut some paragraphs here, and the highlighting is our own, because it is important. It essentially says that when you create an account, you are a person who intends to play the game for fun, and not as a way to make money.  	ISK sellers have always been permanently banned on first offense, which will continue.	ISK buyers have been handled on a two-strike policy, this will also continue:	7 day ban and removal of proceeds
