61	english	 	 Fleet-Up is a web site where you can share ship fittings and doctrines with others. It allows you to create private groups for your corporation or public groups such as the RvB Ganked or Spectre Fleet groups. Once you have a group with some saved fits others can come along view your fits, see if their skills allow them to use it, and then also if browsing from the in-game browser (IGB) they can open the fit in game.	With the release of the fittings resource for CREST in Parallax fleet-up now lets you save the fits to your character from any browser without having to open the client at all. Here are some screen shots from Wacktopia of Fleet-Up:	In the above you can see Fleet-Up asking you to give them permission to view and save fits for your character.	Fleet-Up allows you to link multiple characters to a single Fleet-Up account so here you can select which character to import the fits from.	After selecting a character Fleet-Up will show you all of the fits for that character and then you can easily import those fits into Fleet-Up to be shared.	Wacktopia has said he is working on adding the ability to also export fits from Fleet-Up to EVE however it wasn't ready to be released at the time of writing this dev blog. If you would like to try Fleet-Up you can go to //fleet-up.com/	Pyfa	Pyfa is a fitting tool that lets you play around and experiment with fittings without needing to open the client, own the modules or ship, and before you have the skills. One of its greatest uses is the ability to have a very large number of fits and compare them to each other. Now once you're happy with a given fit and want to actually use it in EVE you can easily save it to the EVE server. The nice advantage of this new method over the existing method of copy the fit to clipboard and save that into the game is that you don't have to have the EVE client open on the same machine as Pyfa. You could in theory (and I would never advocate you do this) have Pyfa installed at work, mess around with fittings, save some fittings to EVE, and then when you log into EVE at home (because you wouldn't do that at the office would you?) the fits would already be available to your character.
