86	english	 	 FEES AND PAYMENT TERMS	To You are not required to pay a fee toTo You are not required to pay a fee to play EVE, you may howeverhowever be required to pay a download fee and/or a subscription fee to access the Software or System and to maintain your Account.  and use certain features of EVE, which would otherwise be unavailable.the Software or System and to maintain your Account.  and use certain features of EVE, which would otherwise be unavailable. You also may purchase items for use within the Game in return for specific item charges.  You will be informed of any applicable download fees, subscription fees, item charges, or any other fees, together with their respective payment terms, during the registration process and, solely with respect to items for use within the Game, immediately prior to purchase.  The current fees and payment terms may be viewed in the EVE Online Help Center and are incorporated in this EULA by reference.  For existing players, fees also may be viewed in your Account Management website, found at //secure.eveonline.com/.  CCP may amend the fees and payment terms at any time.	All fees are payable in U.S. Dollars, Euros, pounds Sterling, Yen, or such other currency as stated in the payment terms.  All fees are non-refundable unless expressly stated otherwise in the EULA.  Failure to pay any such fees will constitute a material breach of this EULA, and your Account may be immediately suspended or terminated at CCP's discretion. this EULA. By paying such fees, you will enjoy enhanced gameplay options and additional features within EVE during the period which fees are paid. If you do not wish to pay any such fees or cancel your paid subscription, the features available to you while playing EVE will be limited.the EULA.  Failure to pay any such fees will constitute a material breach of this EULA, and your Account may be immediately suspended or terminated at CCP's discretion. this EULA. By paying such fees, you will enjoy enhanced gameplay options and additional features within EVE during the period which fees are paid. If you do not wish to pay any such fees or cancel your paid subscription, the features available to you while playing EVE will be limited.	You are responsible for reviewing the fees section of the Game for changes in fees or payment terms. If a change feechange fee is unacceptable to you, you may, as your sole either decide not to pay itas your sole either decide not to pay it and exclusive remedy enjoy a more limited gameplay, orexclusive remedy enjoy a more limited gameplay, or terminate the EULA and close your Account as described in the termination section below. You are responsible for paying all applicable taxes and for all hardware, software, Internet service, subscriptions and other costs you incur to access the System.	CCP may, in its sole discretion, waive any and all fees associated with a Trial Period on your Account.CCP may, in its sole discretion, waive any and all fees associated with a Trial Period on your Account.
