2	english	 	 Greetings capsuleers!	As you saw in CCP Gargant’s Dev blog, Alliance Tournament XII is due to hit your screens this August. The team here is all super excited to bring you another awesome tournament and we’ll be bringing you more info on the rules and tournament format in the next few weeks as we get ready to open signups for teams.	One aspect of the Alliance Tournament is already being decided: the player commentators that we fly out to Iceland to join us live on set for the last two weekends of live broadcasting. Giving truly diehard, committed players the ultimate trip to CCP HQ is one of my favourite things about EVE’s flagship tournament,. We take choosing these players very seriously and a large number of these players have gone on to work for CCP over the years.	Full details on this process are below, copied from CCP Gargant’s dev blog, but I want to bring one thing to your attention right now:	Signups for Alliance Tournament XII will close at midnight UTC on Sunday the 18th. That means you have just a few days left to apply to be a commentator!	Got your attention? Then read the details below:	As a commentator you'll be on the set discussing the tournament, tactics, teams and talking with developers about EVE live on air. You'll also take shifts in the commentary booth providing live commentary on the matches themselves. You need to know your internet spaceship PvP and you need to know how to keep on talking!	Alliance Tournament XII will take place over four consecutive weekends starting on Saturday, August 16th and ending with the grand finale on Sunday, September 7th. Flights (from all Icelandair destinations) and accommodations are supplied by us. All you need is a little spending money.	So you're interested? The next step is to check this short list and make sure you match what we're looking for!	Can you come out and play? Selected players will need to hold a valid passport (we will require scans to confirm this at a later stage) and be available to fly to Iceland on Wednesday, August 27th and return home on Monday, September 8th.	A sense of humor is a must: commentators will need to be sharp-witted, knowledgeable, presentable and comfortable with talking on camera and into a microphone. To increase your chances of getting through, we highly recommend submitting any pre-made or purpose filmed video you have of yourself (link to a YouTube clip or Twitch recording) as part of your application.	You need to know your PvP: We don't despise industrialists, mission-runners and miners but as this is a PvP tournament and you need to be well versed.	You must be 21+ in order to apply.	If you are interested in taking part, please email us at evetv@ccpgames.com by 23:59 UTC (Eve Time) on Sunday May 18th, 2014 with the following information. Those lucky enough to be selected for the second round of eliminations must be available to attend voice chat interviews on Saturday, May 24th, 2014. The chosen commentators will be announced by June 11th, 2014.
