80	english	 	 EVE TV'S PLAYER COMMENTATOR TEAM	We will once again be opening up the application process for players who would like to be PVP commentators. These well-versed hosts are handpicked by us to fly out to Iceland for the tournament finals played over the final two weekends, joining the team here at CCP HQ to help us run the live broadcasts.	As a commentator you'll be on the set discussing the tournament, tactics, and teams as well as talking with developers about EVE live on air. You'll also take shifts in the commentary booth providing live commentary on the matches themselves. You need to know your PvP and you need to know how to keep on talking! Finally, you’ll be helping us create some extra videos about the tournament and the teams participating during the week between the two final weekends.	Alliance Tournament XIV will broadcast for two consecutive weekends starting on Saturday, October 8 and ending with the grand finale on Sunday, October 16. Flights (from all Icelandair destinations) and accommodations are supplied by us. All you need is a little spending money.	Are you interested? The next step is to check this short list and make sure you match what we're looking for!	Can you come out and play? Selected players will need to hold a valid passport (we will require scans to confirm this at a later stage) and be available to fly to Iceland on Wednesday, October 5 and return home on Monday, October 17.	A sense of humor is a must. Commentators will need to be sharp-witted, knowledgeable, presentable and comfortable with talking on camera and into a microphone. To increase your chances of getting through, we highly recommend submitting any pre-made or purpose filmed video you have of yourself (link to a YouTube clip!) as part of your application. Samples of you commentating e-sports matches are even better!	You need to know your PvP: We don't despise industrialists, mission-runners and miners but as this is a PvP tournament and you need to be well versed.	You must be 21+ in order to apply.	If you are interested in taking part, please email us at evetv@ccpgames.com by 23:59 UTC (Eve Time) on Sunday July 11th, 2016 with the following information. Those lucky enough to be selected for the second round of eliminations must be available to attend voice chat interviews on Saturday July 16th, 2016. The chosen commentators will be announced on the following o7 Show.
