84	english	 	 CLONE STATES – IN DEPTH	First of all, accounts won’t be changing much. Every account has three character slots. One of those slots at a time may be used to train skills. One of those characters may be logged in at a time. Account services such as PLEX, Multiple Character Training, and Skill Trading will be completely unaffected.	As described above, any account with an active subscription (paid directly or via PLEX) will have all its characters upgraded to Omega state. Omega can be summed up in a very simple way: It works exactly like subscribed accounts always have.	Alpha State, on the other hand, will be much different. The most important thing to know about Alpha clones is that they may only use a specific set of skills and skill levels. To begin with, we are planning that the Alpha skill set will be focused on using tech one Frigates, Destroyers and Cruisers. Alpha clones will only be able to use ship and weapon skills native to their faction. If you have skills trained on a character in Alpha State, which are not part of the Alpha skill set, those skills will be locked and unusable until Omega state is reactivated. Characters will start the game with the same 400,000 skill points as they do now and will be able to train freely within the Alpha list. A fully trained Alpha will have roughly 5 million skill points. You can find the full Alpha list in the Q&A below the blog.	Additionally, we are changing some of the existing skill pre-requisites:	Increase skill requirement for Entosis Link I module to Informorph Psychology II (was Infomorph Psychology I) to allow Alphas to use jump clones we must also make this change to prevent Alphas from using Entosis Links.	By specifically selecting skills in this way, we can ensure that the EVE ecosystem and the value of Omega state are both protected, while still providing a wide-ranging, exciting EVE experience for Alphas. The clone state prevents access to powerful skills like Cynosural Field Theory and Cloaking, and limits farming through skills that control scaling and efficiency. We are also able to react to unexpected issues by refining the Alpha clone skill list further, should the need arise. Of course, Alphas also have enormous freedom. They will be doing everything from rampaging null sec in Caracal fleets to exploration sites in high sec to playing a major role in faction warfare.	Along with all the system changes described above, we want to make sure that the game itself does a good job showing where skills, items, certificates or activities require a certain clone state. For that reason, we are doing a hefty update to the skill section of the character sheet as well as adding new iconography across the client to let you know exactly what each state can do. Here’s a work in progress shot of the new skill window and an Alpha looking through an inventory with some Omega required items:
