46	english	 	 CAPTURE THE FLAG	As mentioned during the last blog, we also have given some more thought on how players will be able to take structures out.	Small structures, which are going to assimilate existing deployables, cargo containers and mobile warp disruptors will still be able to be directly shot by players. Some exceptions may be kept around for the time being, like the Mobile Depot having a reinforcement timer on their own.	Medium, Large and X-Large structures will use a version of the Sovereignty capture mechanic, which means they will only be attacked through the use of the Entosis module. Please refer to this blog for more information on how that works and this blog for an update to those plans for this summer’s Carnyx and Aegis releases and beyond.	Some details will vary however, as our needs aren’t exactly identical:	Unlike existing Outposts, nothing is to prevent us from having the new structures destroyed after a successful Entosis capture.	Those structures will use the same principles of vulnerability and reinforced states from the Sovereignty overhaul. The structure can only be attacked by Entosis modules when it is vulnerable, and is invulnerable when reinforced. The difference between normal and reinforced modes remains that penalties may be applied to the structure in the latter case (like jobs stopping for instance). The number of vulnerable and reinforced states depends on the size, role and importance of the structure being attacked.	Example: Capturing a Large Citadel structure could require attackers to go through 3 vulnerability phases before it is destroyed, while a Medium Observatory Array may only require 2.	While the capture of X-Large structures will require the use of Command Nodes just like Outposts, the various timers and mechanics fine tuning will vary depending on the structure balancing.	Scooping a structure will require it to be offlined first. Offlining a structure will immediately put it into a vulnerability window (to avoid players bypassing the timer altogether). If a structure already was in a vulnerability mode while being offline, the duration will be refreshed to its full value.	Example: A structure vulnerability window lasts for 2 hours. Offllining the structure will immediately put it into a 2 hours vulnerability window. If the structure only had 1 hour of vulnerability window left when being offlined, the window will go back to 2 full hours.	Structures will drop fitted modules through the same loot mechanic than ships, but corporate and personal stored items inside them will not be affected – this will be handled through asset safety mechanic which we quickly explained in the previous Dev Blog and shall be more extensively tackled in a later blog.	Destroyed structures will leave wrecks which can be salvaged just like ships. What they contain will most likely be some of their built materials although this is still highly speculative at this point in the design process.	Structures having a solar system wide-effect or otherwise impacting some kind of area will be publicly visible in space and in the overview like standard celestials. The same principle applies to structures that the pilot is allowed to interact with.	Example: an alliance member having sufficient roles to interact with an Assembly Array will see it displayed in space / overview. A neutral pilot will not see it there however.	All structures will show on D-scan, can be probed, and will be scannable to see their fittings and contents. We are also thinking of having them visible and directly warpable from the on-board scanner to preserve Wormhole space gameplay.	Below is a visual representation on how such capture process would look:
