85	english	 	 500 units of Isogen	This means that the cost of an individual burst charge should land between 200 and 500 ISK, with the mining burst charges costing a bit less than the combat ones.	Command Burst modules will also require a moderate amount of capacitor to activate.	When activated, the Command Burst will apply bonuses to all fleetmates within range of the boosting ship in a sizable sphere. Imagine a smartbomb that buffs your friends instead of damaging ships and you’ll get the idea. Activating a Command Burst will generate a weapons timer and therefore prevent the boosting ship from jumping through gates or docking for one minute. The area covered by the burst is clearly indicated by their visual effect:	When a fleetmate is hit by the Command Burst, their ship will receive a timed bonus lasting between 60 and 130 seconds that continues to operate even if they move out of range, or if the boosting ship dies. The bonus persists through warps within a system, but does not persist through docking and undocking or through system changes. The bonus is applied to the ship rather than the character, so swapping ships in space leaves the buff on your unpiloted old ship rather than having it follow you to the new ship. Since the burst that applies the timed bonus is instantaneous, any ships that enter range after the burst goes off will need to wait until the next cycle to receive their bonus.	Command Bursts will not apply their bonuses to any fleetmates that are tethered to a structure (like a Citadel or Engineering Complex) or within a starbase force field, and ships cannot activate their Command Burst modules if they themselves are within a force field.	Fleet hierarchy does not matter for these new bonuses, so any fleet member can provide bonuses to any fleetmate that is within range. All existing bonuses that use fleet hierarchy will be removed in the November expansion. This means that passive bonuses provided to entire fleets from skills, implants and ship hulls will be removed and replaced with this new active module system.	There will be restrictions on what ship types can fit Command Bursts and how many Command Bursts can be fit to any individual ships. We are planning on converting Command Processors (the module that allow a ship to fit more links) into a rig, which should go a long way towards addressing a current source of imbalance between armor and shield tanked boosting ships.	If a ship is allowed to fit multiple Command Bursts, they are welcome to fit multiples of the same type of Burst module or mix and match Burst module types. So if an Orca pilot wishes to provide three types of Mining Foreman boosts to its fleet at the same time it will be welcome to fit three Mining Foreman Bursts and load each module with a different ammo. Or it could fit two Mining Foreman Burst modules and one Shield Command Burst module and swap ammo on the fly to provide whatever bonuses are most appropriate to the situation.	Like existing warfare links, multiple copies of any given Command Burst bonus do not stack on top of each other. The Command Burst system will only apply the bonus from the strongest version of each Command Burst effect that is applied to any given ship. However, Command Burst bonuses do stack on top of bonuses from other sources (such as modules and implants) and this interaction may be subject to diminishing returns (stacking penalties) depending on the attribute being affected.	Our plan for skill requirements in the new system is:	Tech 1 Mining Foreman Bursts will only require Leadership level 1 and Mining Foreman level 1	Tech 2 Mining Foreman will require Leadership level 5 and Mining Director level 1	All Command Bursts modules (including Mining Foreman Bursts) share these common stats:
