108	english	 	 IMPROVEMENTS TO MOON SURVEYING	Due to the radical changes to moon composition and the upcoming opportunities for moon surveying, we are also releasing significant user experience upgrades to the moon survey process.	Moon surveying is a lesser known form of EVE exploration that uses a special probe launcher to investigate the materials available in moons. This process has changed relatively little over the past several years and there are multiple areas where we saw opportunities to improve the UI and feedback.	The basics of the moon scanning process are:	Fit a Survey Probe Launcher module to your ship. Covert Ops ships are especially well suited for this task as they have a bonus to improve the survey speed. There are three types of probe to choose from, with different survey speeds, volumes, and skill requirements.	Fly to a spot near a moon in Lowsec or Nullsec space and start flying in the direction the moon.	Open the moon analysis window that is available from the scanner radial button when you have a Survey Probe Launcher fit.	When you launch a Survey Probe it flies in the direction that your ship was travelling (like bombs launched from stealth bombers). Probes fly through space for a few minutes and then scan the moon that is directly ahead of them. If you missed the moon then no results will display. If the moon does not contain any minable materials then no results will display.	With our new improvements to the moon scanning system there will be an improved moon analysis window that displays the remaining time for each of your probes with the moon they are attempting to scan. If you have missed the moon entirely then the destination column will show as “Unknown”, clearly indicating that a new probe will need to be launched to obtain the correct results. The moon analysis window will then display the full percentage compositions of the moons once the scans complete.	This set of changes will also include vastly improved discoverability of the moon survey process, some tweaks to the moon probe physics themselves to make them feel more realistic, and a sanity cap on the maximum range from which you can scan a moon.	This new UI will actually be arriving on Tranquility separately before expansion brings the Refineries and the moon distribution reset. With a feature as big as Refineries we have been working hard to complete many of the aspects early to give them lots of testing and feedback time. The new moon scanning UI will be arriving on the Singularity test server in the coming weeks and will be released to Tranquility in our August release. In the time between the August release and the Winter Expansion with Refineries the new UI will continue to display units of quantity for each moon material present on the moon rather than percentages.	This early UI release is just one of several aspects of the Refinery feature that are being completed early as we work hard to produce a great Winter Expansion for all of you. We have already silently released the server-side code that allows the upcoming Mining Ledger to track each pilot’s mining activity, and we will be releasing more information soon about the first rounds of early SISI testing for the Refinery structures themselves.	For anyone looking for a TL;DR here’s your convenient summary:
