115	english	 	 The Extraction Scheduling window allows:	Setting a Ready date by manually entering a desired time and date, or through manipulating the slider	Determining when an extraction will be ready in conjunction with when the Structure will be vulnerable	Estimating the volume of ore that the moon chunk will hold, for better organization of your mining fleet needs	Ability to add the Extraction event to your Corporation Calendar, to inform your members when to assemble for the harvest	Once a Moon Extraction has been set, the Moon Drill will fire at the moon and begin to draw a chunk of the moon towards the Refinery. This process will take several days, and during this time the chunk cannot be disrupted, except by those with the Station Manager role (who are able to stop the drilling process), or if the Moon Drill Module is offlined or the structure is destroyed. If this happens whilst an extraction is in progress, the chunk will be destroyed and a new extraction will have to be started from the beginning.	Ratios/types/volumes reflect not the final stats in-game	Once the extraction time has passed and the chunk of moon has been pulled into position next to the refinery, the next stage of the process can begin.	Once a chunk is ready, the structure controllers will fire the Moon Drill laser at the chunk to explode it into an asteroid field of mine-able asteroids comprising the moon ores. Miners in the vicinity can then mine these asteroids as normal to receive the riches within them. All asteroids mined from this field will be logged in the Corporation Mining Ledger of the Refinery owning corporation and details about the ledger can be found here.	Please note that if no one detonates the moon chunk once it is ready, it will automatically explode into a field after 3 hours (or longer if the appropriate rig is fitted). This could happen if no one fires the laser, or the Moon Drill runs out of fuel after the extraction has finished, or if the structure has been reinforced.	Once a chunk has been shattered into asteroids, the Moon Drill can be used to start another extraction. A new extraction can be started before all of the asteroids have been mined out. The moon ore asteroids are also not perpetual and will decay approximately two days after the chunk is fractured. Miners are free to mine the choicest of rocks, leaving those less suitable to their needs to the ravages of the harsh vacuum of space. This decay lifetime can be extended up to four days with rigs, but asteroids will always expire before the next chunk can be fractured.
